<story title="The Driver of the Hearse" date="1919">
When I tell you that I am an obstinate sceptic on the question of supernatural manifestations you will not expect me to offer you any explanation of the facts I am about to lay before you. I am of those who will not accept a facile supernatural explanation of events, however much they may appear to be inexplicable otherwise, until it has been demonstrated beyond possibility of cavil that natural causes are excluded. Such demonstration is humanly impossible, the limitations of human knowledge and human intelligence being what they are. Therefore, I have neither explanation nor theory to offer you. I merely chronicle the facts as they occurred within my own witnessing.
To begin with she was the last woman of my acquaintance whom I should describe as spirituelle; although I know it to be held that the possession of what I believe are described as "mediumistic powers" does not in itself imply any acute order of intelligence. She was just a gentle, sweet-natured slip of a girl of three or four and twenty, with the normal more or less mechanical accomplishments of her kind. She spoke French execrably; knew enough music to realise what an indifferent performer she was on the piano, and not enough about painting to save her from copying the works of third-rate artists, and having them afterwards framed at considerable expense in the hope that we would accept them for decorative purposes. It was the only thing she did to annoy me in the six months she spent with us, the only thing that ever went seriously near to marring the serenity of my relations with my wife, whose sister she was.
It was during that visit to us that she met Gastonleigh at somebody or other's At Home, whereupon Gastonleigh became an assiduous visitor at my house. He was a charming fellow with excellent instincts, the average supply of brains, and more than the average of good manners. Also he was young, well set up and personable, and deputising as I did, in a sense, for Susan's father I did not hesitate to consider him in every sense a most desirable son-in-law. I was still young enough to be in sympathy with young lovers, and I hoped the course of the affair would be smooth for the sake of Susan. The difficulty lay in getting them comfortably into wedlock. From the beginning I foresaw trouble with his people. Susan is the daughter of a moderately wealthy, unimpugnably respectable, but—from the Gastonleigh point of view—deplorably plebeian Chicago middleman. The Gastonleighs never forget, or allow anybody else to forget, that they are of royal blood, however curiously diluted. They belong to the quite considerable group which is Britain's more or less putative heritage from the monarch appropriately called the Merry. All things considered—especially the frail seventeenth century lady chiefly concerned—it is not an origin to which I should, myself, be disposed to draw too much attention. But the Gastonleighs are true to their blood in that—like their ancestress—they take broad views on these matters. The swarthy, sardonic face of King Charles II smirks down upon you from the drawing room overmantel at Severnholme Place, and the Gastonleighs—especially the female members of the family—unfailingly refer to the royal satyr as "grandpapa."
You will conceive, therefore, what a shudder it was that ran through Severnholme Place when the heir to the title announced that he was committed to a mesalliance. He had cabled to Susan's father, and Susan's father, also by cable, had constituted me his proxy. Whereupon I had bestowed his consent and blessing upon the children.
The family took it very badly. There were threats of disinheriting Gastonleigh—wild, unconsidered threats, for the bulk of the property was securely entailed. When, finding that they could do nothing material to bring him to what they called reason, they attempted other means of coercion, Lady Severnholme announced—and her angular daughters echoed the sentiment on their own behalf—that nothing would ever induce her to receive this daughter of a Chicago pork-packer. As a matter of fact, my father-in-law is not a pork-packer, but the term has an unpleasant ring; which renders it an admirable instrument of invective. When Gastonleigh, suavely and exasperatingly keeping his temper, persisted nevertheless in his intention, her ladyship had recourse to writing a letter to Susan which would have given ample grounds for an action for criminal libel.
It was the last straw. Susan had her pride, and that pride had been very considerably bruised by the Gastonleighs already. She had more than once threatened to break the engagement and her own heart at one blow, and this time she announced it as her irrevocable determination. It took Gastonleigh a week to make her revoke it. Even then I do not think he would have succeeded without my collaboration. I used trite enough arguments I reminded her that she was not marrying Lady Severnholme, or Lady Severnholme's angular daughters. They might be as offensive as they pleased at present; but the sweetest revenge was to marry Gastonleigh in spite of them. Once safely married to the heir to the title, she would be in a position to whistle the pack to heel, particularly as the fairly human old earl seemed disposed to accept the situation.
Her great brown eyes—she had the most alluring eyes in all the world—considered me with wistful doubt.
"You believe that? I wish I could. Have you ever heard of the evil eye?"
"What on earth...?" I was beginning, for she is not usually irrelevant.
"Of course you don't. You're too...too sensible." This was sarcasm. "You'll probably laugh when I tell you that I am convinced of the power of the will for good or evil, that I believe that where any one wishes you ill with all the strength of his soul, you are in danger of suffering evil. Lady Severnholme must be very ill-disposed and malevolent towards me, or she could never have brought herself to write me such a letter. It...it frightens me, Tom."
I had her at my mercy. Gastonleigh's fight was fought and won.
"So that's it!" I crowed. "You are afraid—afraid of shadows."
"Oh, not of shadows." She was very solemn.
"But afraid of something, anyhow. Hitherto I have respected you, Susan I have believed that you were concerned for Gastonleigh, that you feared to complicate his life unduly. Instead, it seems that you are concerned only for yourself, afraid of something to yourself. And because of this you are prepared to let that splendid fellow suffer as he is suffering."
It startled her. "I hadn't thought of it like that. You may be right. Perhaps it is because I am a coward. But I can't help it. I have had a sense of evil hanging over me ever since I received that letter. I feel that wicked old woman's malevolent will exercised against me, and I..."
"Fudge!" I interrupted her. "Let her exercise it, by all means. She can't hurt you half as much as you'll hurt her when you become Lady Gastonleigh."
My wife agreeing with me, Susan allowed herself to be persuaded. But the sense of evil abode with her, and increased as the time of the marriage drew nearer.
"Once Bob and I are married" she told me one day, "I know this cloud will be lifted."
"How do you know?" I inquired.
"I just know."
There is no arguing with a woman who talks like that. "Capital," I agreed. "The thing to do is to shorten this engagement as far as is decently possible."
I said this as much in her own interests as in mine, for I could see there was to be no peace for me until Gastonleigh took Susan away. At last the wedding was fixed for the first week in October. It was to be a quiet one in view of the uncompromising attitude of the Gastonleigh family; nevertheless we decided that my wife and I should take Susan up to town and let her be married from the Hotel Britannia.
One evening, exactly a fortnight before the day appointed for the wedding, Susan was standing at the window of my study, looking out for Gastonleigh who was coming down from town by the six-thirty train. Suddenly I caught from her the sound of a sharp, apprehensive exclamation. I heard it subconsciously, for I was writing busily at the moment. And it may have been some four or five minutes later before my consciousness received it, and I looked up. With her back to the window, she was facing me across the wide room.
"What is it?" I asked her.
She shuddered before replying, and the shudder was still in her voice when she spoke.
"Oh! Such an evil omen!" I was disposed to be impatient. The child saw omens now in everything. "Didn't you see it?"
"How could I? I was busy writing, Susan. What was it?"
"A hearse."
"Oh well, people do die, you know, and it's necessary to bury them."
"But it stopped at the gate, and the driver looked at me over the top of it—such a dark, wicked face!"
"Really?" I spoke casually, judging it the best way to deal with nerves in the condition of her own. "They are usually such fat, rosy, jolly chaps. Have you ever noticed it?"
She began to sob. It was very exasperating. I threw down my pen, and went to comfort her. I attempted seriously, to take her to task, showing her the folly of allowing idiotic fancies to paralyse her reason. She listened very patiently. "I am sure you're right, Tom, and it's awfully—awfully good of you to be so patient with me—"
"I'm not!" I said. "I have no patience with you at all."
"I will try to...I really will try. But"—her lip trembled and the brown eyes grew troubled again—"but I am sure I shall never marry Bob. Something dreadful will happen to me. I know it. I feel it. Lady Severnholme—"
"There you go again! Is this how you try, Susan?" After that she did try, as she promised, and in the days that followed she largely succeeded. She was becoming more like the bright, laughing girl that had stolen the heart from Gastonleigh, and I was congratulating myself that at last the prospect of a happy marriage was overcoming the effect of a mass of ill-considered, ill-digested reading on the subject of the supernatural.
And then exactly a week later the trouble broke out worse than ever. It was just after tea. We were sitting round the fire in my wife's boudoir, when Susan, who had wandered aimlessly across to the window, uttered a gasp that was almost a suppressed scream. I sprang to my feet in alarm.
"It's there again—the hearse."
I crossed quickly to the window, and looked out. There was nothing to be seen. I said so. She turned, and looked again, verifying that it was as I told her.
"He must have driven on," she said.
"I didn't hear him. Did you, Margaret?" I asked my wife.
"No, I heard nothing."
And then I did an extremely foolish thing. I threw up the window, and looked out. We command a view of half a mile of road through that Kentish village on either side of the house. Not a vehicle was anywhere in sight upon it. Susan would not believe me. She came to verify the fact for herself, and it was only when I saw her deathly pallor that I realised the harm that I had done.
"No hearse?" she said, her voice low with sudden fear. "It wasn't there at all! But I saw it, I saw it, Tom. Oh!"
It was idle of my wife and me to get her in a chair by the fire, and then seek to argue with her that what she had seen was but a reflection of her own overwrought imagination, the result of having allowed the hearse seen a week before to have made so ridiculous an impression upon her.
"How do you know that that other hearse was there at all?" she asked.
"Oh, come, Susan, that way madness lies. What you saw last week, you saw and you very foolishly allowed it to impress you. What you saw just now was—"
"Was exactly what I saw last week. The same hearse and the same driver. He looked at me over the gate again, and I recognised him."
"Merely the complete recollection of what you had actually seen a week ago," I insisted. Of course it didn't convince her at all, and I could only possess my soul in patience and wait until her marriage with Gastonleigh—her superstitions being what they were in the matter—should exorcise the ghosts her morbid fancy had evoked.
She was rather a wan, listless thing that week, obsessed, I know, by the conviction that Lady Severnholme's implacable willing of evil would overtake her before the wedding. She took the most casual interest in the handsome gifts that poured in by every post, and almost less in the contents of boxes from dressmaker, milliner, shoemaker, and other purveyors with which the house was becoming choked.
At last we were on the eve of the wedding. Her boxes were packed, and every thing was ready. We were going to town that night, and we were in my study, where I was giving some final instructions to the butler whilst waiting for the car. Suddenly Susan screamed. I span round, to see her standing again by the window, sheer terror in her eyes.
I ran to her as she swayed towards me, and sank feebly into my arms, conscious but limp.
"I looked out to see if the car was here," she said. "Instead I saw the hearse standing at the gate. I should have known it would be there. This time...the driver leered at me."
I looked through the window. There was nothing to be seen; but even as I looked the long limousine slipped into view, and came to an almost silent standstill at the gates. I resorted to a subterfuge that atoned for the blunder of the last occasion.
"You silly child," I said, and laughed outright. "It's the car, and your precious hearse-driver is Groves. Look for yourself. Now do you realise what a state you have allowed yourself to get into?"
"But—"
"You can't argue it away, my dear. You may find authorities to confirm your belief that the immaterial can be visible, but you'll find none to support your pretence that the material can become invisible, and that's what must have happened if you saw a hearse instead of a limousine, and a hearse-driver instead of a chauffeur."
If the subterfuge did not work as well as I could have wished, at least it worked better than I hoped. We got her up to town more or less pacified, more or less convinced she was the victim of her own brooding. Gastonleigh dined with us at the Britannia, and left early, whereupon we all retired. I looked at my watch, as I said good-night to Susan.
"In twelve hours' time, my dear, you'll be the happiest woman in England."
"If I live until then," she answered me very soberly. "Good-night, Tom dear, and God bless you whatever happens. You've been sweet to me."
I went to bed miserable, I confess.
Next morning all was bustle in our apartments from 6 o'clock onwards, a bustle increased towards 10 by the arrival of the three bridesmaids. At half-past 10 we set out, Susan on my arm, Margaret on her right, and the bridesmaids following. In this order we proceeded more or less processionally down the thickly carpeted corridor. The general excitement had raised the little bride out of her preoccupations.
An obsequious chamberlain had preceded us towards the lift, which glided into view behind its iron lattice as we approached it. The lattice clashed aside, and the lift-attendant, a slim, swarthy faced man in a blue and gold uniform, stood respectfully waiting.
Susan stepped briskly forward, and then checked. Almost in the very act of putting her foot across the metal lintel of the lift, she stopped dead. She shrank back against me so violently that I was almost thrown off my balance. I could feel her body trembling violently against mine, whilst her hands clasped my arm, and her face was overspread with livid, unutterable horror. Faintly, I caught her words, half-wail, half-whisper.
"No, no! No, no! I can't!"
Thus we stood in that state of indefinable suspense, what time the chamberlain, back obsequiously bent, too polite to stare, held the door aside and waited, and the lift-attendant within the cage frankly looked his mingled concern and astonishment. Thus for a full half-minute, and then quite suddenly a report, like the shot of a gun, reverberated through the corridor; lift and liftman plunged down the shaft, with a rattle and clang that ended in a terrific crash below. Above the gaping space where an instant ago the lift had stood dangled the ragged ends of the steel hawser which had snapped.
We took the half-swooning Susan back to her room, and there applied restoratives. When presently she had regained some self-control her first question concerned the lift-attendant. She was told that he was very seriously injured; my own suspicion was that he had been killed.
She turned to me. "Did you see his face, Tom?" she asked me, almost wildly. "That dark, evil face? It was the face of the driver of the hearse."
And that is all. I understood then why she had shrunk against me with such signs of terror; why she had hung back from entering the lift, and so saved her life and ours. I say that I understood; but as a matter of fact I understood nothing, for to understand is to have the faculty of explaining, and that is altogether beyond me, as I have said. Susan of course explains it, and by way of proof that she knows what she is talking about, she urges the fact that her premonition that Lady Severnholme's power of evil would cease with Gastonleigh's marriage has been confirmed by the events.</story>