<story title="A MODERN LOVER" date="1933">

I
 
The road was heavy with mud. It was labour to move along it.
The old, wide way, forsaken and grown over with grass, used not
to be so bad. The farm traffic from Coney Grey must have cut it
up. The young man crossed carefully again to the strip of grass
on the other side. It was a dreary, out-of-doors track, saved only by low
fragments of fence and occasional bushes from the desolation of
the large spaces of arable and of grassland on either side, where
only the unopposed wind and the great clouds mattered, where even
the little grasses bent to one another indifferent of any
traveller. The abandoned road used to seem clean and firm. Cyril
Mersham stopped to look round and to bring back old winters to
the scene, over the ribbed red land and the purple wood. The
surface of the field seemed suddenly to lift and break. Something
had startled the peewits, and the fallow flickered over with pink
gleams of birds white-breasting the sunset. Then the plovers
turned, and were gone in the dusk behind. Darkness was issuing out of the earth, and clinging to the
trunks of the elms which rose like weird statues, lessening down
the wayside. Mersham laboured forwards, the earth sucking and
smacking at his feet. In front the Coney Grey farm was piled in
shadow on the road. He came near to it, and saw the turnips
heaped in a fabulous heap up the side of the barn, a buttress
that rose almost to the eaves, and stretched out towards the
cart-ruts in the road. Also, the pale breasts of the turnips got
the sunset, and they were innumerable orange glimmers piled in
the dusk. The two labourers who were pulping at the foot of the
mound stood shadow-like to watch as he passed, breathing the
sharp scent of turnips. It was all very wonderful and glamorous here, in the old
places that had seemed so ordinary. Three-quarters of the scarlet
sun was settling among the branches of the elm in front, right
ahead where he would come soon. But when he arrived at the brow
where the hill swooped downwards, where the broad road ended
suddenly, the sun had vanished from the space before him, and the
evening star was white where the night urged up against the
retreating, rose-coloured billow of day. Mersham passed through
the stile and sat upon the remnant of the thorn tree on the brink
of the valley. All the wide space before him was full of a mist
of rose, nearly to his feet. The large ponds were hidden, the
farms, the fields, the far-off coal-mine, under the rosy
outpouring of twilight. Between him and the spaces of
Leicestershire and the hills of Derbyshire, between him and all
the South Country which he had fled, was the splendid rose-red
strand of sunset, and the white star keeping guard. Here, on the lee-shore of day, was the only purple showing of
the woods and the great hedge below him; and the roof of the farm
below him, with a film of smoke rising up. Unreal, like a dream
which wastes a sleep with unrest, was the South and its hurrying
to and fro. Here, on the farther shore of the sunset, with the
flushed tide at his feet, and the large star flashing with
strange laughter, did he himself naked walk with lifted arms into
the quiet flood of life. What was it he wanted, sought in the slowly-lapsing tide of
days? Two years he had been in the large city in the south. There
always his soul had moved among the faces that swayed on the
thousand currents in that node of tides, hovering and wheeling
and flying low over the faces of the multitude like a sea-gull
over the waters, stopping now and again, and taking a fragment of
life--a look, a contour, a movement--to feed upon. Of many
people, his friends, he had asked that they would kindle again
the smouldering embers of their experience; he had blown the low
fires gently with his breath, and had leaned his face towards
their glow, and had breathed in the words that rose like fumes
from the revived embers, till he was sick with the strong drug of
sufferings and ecstasies and sensations, and the dreams that
ensued. But most folk had choked out the fires of their fiercer
experience with rubble of sentimentality and stupid fear, and
rarely could he feel the hot destruction of Life fighting out its
way. Surely, surely somebody could give him enough of the philtre
of life to stop the craving which tortured him hither and
thither, enough to satisfy for a while, to intoxicate him till he
could laugh the crystalline laughter of the star, and bathe in
the retreating flood of twilight like a naked boy in the surf,
clasping the waves and beating them and answering their wild
clawings with laughter sometimes, and sometimes gasps of
pain. He rose and stretched himself. The mist was lying in the
valley like a flock of folded sheep; Orion had strode into the
sky, and the Twins were playing towards the West. He shivered,
stumbled down the path, and crossed the orchard, passing among
the dark trees as if among people he knew. ? 
II
 ? He came into the yard. It was exceedingly, painfully muddy. He
felt a disgust of his own feet, which were cold, and numbed, and
heavy. The window of the house was uncurtained, and shone like a
yellow moon, with only a large leaf or two of ivy, and a cord of
honeysuckle hanging across it. There seemed a throng of figures
moving about the fire. Another light gleamed mysteriously among
the out-buildings. He heard a voice in the cow-shed, and the
impatient movement of a cow, and the rhythm of milk in the
bucket. He hesitated in the darkness of the porch; then he entered
without knocking. A girl was opposite him, coming out of the
dairy doorway with a loaf of bread. She started, and they stood a
moment looking at each other across the room. They advanced to
each other; he took her hand, plunged overhead, as it were, for a
moment in her great brown eyes. Then he let her go, and looked
aside, saying some words of greeting. He had not kissed her; he
realised that when he heard her voice: "When did you come?" She was bent over the table, cutting bread-and-butter. What
was it in her bowed, submissive pose, in the dark, small head
with its black hair twining and hiding her face, that made him
wince and shrink and close over his soul that had been open like
a foolhardy flower to the night? Perhaps it was her very
submission, which trammelled him, throwing the responsibility of
her wholly on him, making him shrink from the burden of her. Her brothers were home from the pit. They were two well-built
lads of twenty and twenty-one. The coal-dust over their faces was
like a mask, making them inscrutable, hiding any glow of
greeting, making them strangers. He could only see their eyes
wake with a sudden smile, which sank almost immediately, and they
turned aside. The mother was kneeling at a big brown stew-jar in
front of the open oven. She did not rise, but gave him her hand,
saying: "Cyril! How are you?" Her large dark eyes wavered and
left him. She continued with the spoon in the jar. His disappointment rose as water suddenly heaves up the side
of a ship. A sense of dreariness revived, a feeling, too, of the
cold wet mud that he had struggled through. These were the people who, a few months before, would look up
in one fine broad glow of welcome whenever he entered the door,
even if he came daily. Three years before, their lives would draw
together into one flame, and whole evenings long would flare with
magnificent mirth, and with play. They had known each other's
lightest and deepest feelings. Now, when he came back to them
after a long absence, they withdrew, turned aside. He sat down on
the sofa under the window, deeply chagrined. His heart closed
tight like a fir-cone, which had been open and full of naked
seeds when he came to them. They asked him questions of the South. They were starved for
news, they said, in that God-forsaken hole. "It is such a treat to hear a bit of news from outside," said
the mother. News! He smiled, and talked, plucking for them the leaves from
off his tree: leaves of easy speech. He smiled, rather bitterly,
as he slowly reeled off his news, almost mechanically. Yet he
knew--and that was the irony of it--that they did not want his
"records"; they wanted the timorous buds of his hopes, and the
unknown fruits of his experience, full of the taste of tears and
what sunshine of gladness had gone to their ripening. But they
asked for his "news", and, because of some subtle perversity, he
gave them what they begged, not what they wanted, not what he
desired most sincerely to give them. Gradually he exhausted his store of talk, that he had thought
was limitless. Muriel moved about all the time, laying the table
and listening, only looking now and again across the barren
garden of his talk into his windows. But he hardened his heart
and turned his head from her. The boys had stripped to their
waists, and had knelt on the hearth-rug and washed themselves in
a large tin bowl, the mother sponging and drying their backs. Now
they stood wiping themselves, the firelight bright and rosy on
their fine torsos, their heavy arms swelling and sinking with
life. They seemed to cherish the firelight on their bodies.
Benjamin, the younger, leaned his breast to the warmth, and threw
back his head, showing his teeth in a voluptuous little smile.
Mersham watched them, as he had watched the peewits and the
sunset. Then they sat down to their dinners, and the room was dim with
the steam of food. Presently the father and the eldest brother
were in from the cow-sheds, and all assembled at table. The
conversation went haltingly; a little badinage on Mersham's part,
a few questions on politics from the father. Then there grew an
acute, fine feeling of discord. Mersham, particularly sensitive,
reacted. He became extremely attentive to the others at table,
and to his own manner of eating. He used English that was
exquisitely accurate, pronounced with the Southern accent, very
different from the heavily-sounded speech of the home folk. His
nicety contrasted the more with their rough, country habit. They
became shy and awkward, fumbling for something to say. The boys
ate their dinners hastily, shovelling up the mass as a man
shovels gravel. The eldest son clambered roughly with a great
hand at the plate of bread-and-butter. Mersham tried to shut his
eyes. He kept up all the time a brilliant tea-talk that they
failed to appreciate in that atmosphere. It was evident to him;
without forming the idea, he felt how irrevocably he was removing
them from him, though he had loved them. The irony of the
situation appealed to him, and added brightness and subtlety to
his wit. Muriel, who had studied him so thoroughly, confusedly
understood. She hung her head over her plate, and ate little. Now
and again she would look up at him, toying all the time with her
knife--though it was a family for ugly hands--and would address
him some barren question. He always answered the question, but he
invariably disregarded her look of earnestness, lapped in his
unbreakable armour of light irony. He acknowledged, however, her
power in the flicker of irritation that accompanied his reply.
She quickly hid her face again. They did not linger at tea, as in the old days. The men rose,
with an "Ah well!" and went about their farm-work. One of the
lads lay sprawling for sleep on the sofa; the other lighted a
cigarette and sat with his arms on his knees, blinking into the
fire. Neither of them ever wore a coat in the house, and their
shirt-sleeves and their thick bare necks irritated the stranger
still further by accentuating his strangeness. The men came
tramping in and out to the boiler. The kitchen was full of
bustle, of the carrying of steaming water, and of draughts. It
seemed like a place out of doors. Mersham shrank up in his
corner, and pretended to read the Daily News. He was
ignored, like an owl sitting in the stalls of cattle. "Go in the parlour, Cyril. Why don't you? It's comfortable
there." Muriel turned to him with this reproach, this remonstrance,
almost chiding him. She was keenly aware of his discomfort, and
of his painful discord with his surroundings. He rose without a
word and obeyed her. ? 
III
 ? The parlour was a long, low room with red colourings. A bunch
of mistletoe hung from the beam, and thickly-berried holly was
over the pictures--over the little gilt-blazed water-colours that
he hated so much because he had done them in his 'teens, and
nothing is so hateful as the self one has left. He dropped in the
tapestried chair called the Countess, and thought of the changes
which this room had seen in him. There, by that hearth, they had
threshed the harvest of their youth's experience, gradually
burning the chaff of sentimentality and false romance that
covered the real grain of life. How infinitely far away, now,
seemed Jane Eyre and George Eliot. These had marked the
beginning. He smiled as he traced the graph onwards, plotting the
points with Carlyle and Ruskin, Schopenhauer and Darwin and
Huxley, Omar Khayyam, the Russians, Ibsen and Balzac; then Guy de
Maupassant and Madame Bovary. They had parted in the midst
of Madame Bovary. Since then had come only Nietzsche and
William James. They had not done so badly, he thought, during
those years which now he was apt to despise a little, because of
their dreadful strenuousness, and because of their later deadly,
unrelieved seriousness. He wanted her to come in and talk about
the old times. He crossed to the other side of the fire and lay
in the big horse-hair chair, which pricked the back of his head.
He looked about, and stuffed behind him the limp green cushions
that were always sweating down. It was a week after Christmas. He guessed they had kept up the
holly and mistletoe for him. The two photographs of himself still
occupied the post of honour on the mantelpiece; but between them
was a stranger. He wondered who the fellow could be; good-looking
he seemed to be; but a bit of a clown beside the radiant, subtle
photos of himself. He smiled broadly at his own arrogance. Then
he remembered that Muriel and her people were leaving the farm
come Lady-day. Immediately, in valediction, he began to call up
the old days, when they had romped and played so boisterously,
dances, and wild charades, and all mad games. He was just telling
himself that those were the days, the days of unconscious,
ecstatic fun, and he was smiling at himself over his information,
when she entered. She came in, hesitating. Seeing him sprawling in his old
abandonment, she closed the door softly. For a moment or two she
sat, her elbows on her knees, her chin in her hands, sucking her
little finger, and withdrawing it from her lips with a little
pop, looking all the while in the fire. She was waiting for him,
knowing all the time he would not begin. She was trying to feel
him, as it were. She wanted to assure herself of him after so
many months. She dared not look at him directly. Like all
brooding, constitutionally earnest souls, she gave herself away
unwisely, and was defenceless when she found herself pushed back,
rejected so often with contempt. "Why didn't you tell me you were coming?" she asked at
last. "I wanted to have exactly one of the old tea-times, and
evenings." "Ay!" she answered with hopeless bitterness. She was a
dreadful pessimist. People had handled her so brutally, and had
cheaply thrown away her most sacred intimacies. He laughed, and looked at her kindly. "Ah, well, if I'd thought about it I should have known this
was what to expect. It's my own fault." "Nay," she answered, still bitterly; "it's not your fault.
It's ours. You bring us to a certain point, and when you go away,
we lose it all again, and receive you like creatures who have
never known you." "Never mind," he said easily. "If it is so, it is! How are
you?" She turned and looked full at him. She was very handsome;
heavily moulded, coloured richly. He looked back smiling into her
big, brown, serious eyes. "Oh, I'm very well," she answered, with puzzled irony. "How
are you?" "Me? You tell me. What do you think of me?" "What do I think?" She laughed a little nervous laugh and
shook her head. "I don't know. Why--you look well--and very much
of a gentleman." "Ah--and you are sorry?" "No--No, I am not! No! Only you're different, you see." "Ah, the pity! I shall never be as nice as I was at
twenty-one, shall I?" He glanced at his photo on the mantelpiece,
and smiled, gently chaffing her. "Well--you're different--it isn't that you're not so nice, but
different. I always think you're like that, really." She too glanced at the photo, which had been called the
portrait of an intellectual prig, but which was really that of a
sensitive, alert, exquisite boy. The subject of the portrait lay
smiling at her. Then it turned voluptuously, like a cat spread
out in the chair. "And this is the last of it all--!" She looked up at him, startled and pitiful. "Of this phase, I mean," he continued, indicating with his
eyes the room, the surroundings. "Of Crossleigh Bank, I mean, and
this part of our lives." "Ay!" she said, bowing her head, and putting into the
exclamation all her depth of sadness and regret. He laughed. "Aren't you glad?" he asked. She looked up, startled, a little shocked. "Good-bye's a fine word," he explained. "It means you're going
to have a change, and a change is what you, of all people,
want." Her expression altered as she listened. "It's true," she said. "I do." "So you ought to say to yourself, 'What a treat! I'm going to
say good-bye directly to the most painful phase of my life.' You
make up your mind it shall be the most painful, by refusing to be
hurt so much in the future. There you are! 'Men at most times are
masters of their fates,' etcetera." She pondered his method of reasoning, and turned to him with a
little laughter that was full of pleading and yearning. "Well," he said, lying, amiably smiling, "isn't that so?--and
aren't you glad?" "Yes!" she nodded. "I am--very glad." He twinkled playfully at her, and asked, in a soft voice: "Then what do you want?" "Yes," she replied, a little breathlessly. "What do I?" She
looked at him with a rash challenge that pricked him. "Nay," he said, evading her, "do you even ask me that?" She veiled her eyes, and said, meekly in excuse: "It's a long time since I asked you anything, isn't it?" "Ay! I never thought of it. Whom have you asked in the
interim?" "Whom have I asked?"--she arched her brows and laughed a
monosyllable of scorn. "No one, of course!" he said, smiling. "The world asks
questions of you, you ask questions of me, and I go to some
oracle in the dark, don't I?" She laughed with him. "No!" he said, suddenly serious. "Supposing you must answer me
a big question--something I can never find out by myself?" He lay out indolently in the chair and began smiling again.
She turned to look with intensity at him, her hair's fine foliage
all loose round her face, her dark eyes haunted with doubt, her
finger at her lips. A slight perplexity flickered over his
eyes. "At any rate," he said, "you have something to give me." She continued to look at him with dark, absorbing eyes. He
probed her with his regard. Then he seemed to withdraw, and his
pupils dilated with thought. "You see," he said, "life's no good but to live--and you can't
live your life by yourself. You must have a flint and a steel,
both, to make the spark fly. Supposing you be my flint, my white
flint, to spurt out red fire for me?" "But how do you mean?" she asked breathlessly. "You see," he continued, thinking aloud as usual:
"thought--that's not life. It's like washing and combing and
carding and weaving the fleece that the year of life has
produced. Now I think--we've carded and woven to the end of our
bundle--nearly. We've got to begin again--you and me--living
together, see? Not speculating and poetising together--see?" She did not cease to gaze absorbedly at him. "Yes?" she whispered, urging him on. "You see--I'll come back to you--to you--" He waited for
her. "But," she said huskily, "I don't understand." He looked at her with aggressive frankness, putting aside all
her confusions. "Fibber!" he said gently. "But--" she turned in her chair from him--"but not
clearly." He frowned slightly: "Nay, you should be able by now to use the algebra of speech.
Must I count up on your fingers for you what I mean, unit by
unit, in bald arithmetic?" "No--no!" she cried, justifying herself; "but how can I
understand--the change in you? You used to say--you
couldn't.--Quite opposite." He lifted his head as if taking in her meaning. "Ah, yes, I have changed. I forget. I suppose I must have
changed in myself. I'm older--I'm twenty-six. I used to shrink
from the thought of having to kiss you, didn't I?" He smiled very
brightly, and added, in a soft voice: "Well--I don't, now." She flushed darkly and hid her face from him. "Not," he continued, with slow, brutal candour--"not that I
know any more than I did then--what love is--as you know
it--but--I think you're beautiful--and we know each other so
well--as we know nobody else, don't we? And so we . . ." His voice died away, and they sat in a tense silence,
listening to the noise outside, for the dog was barking loudly.
They heard a voice speaking and quieting him. Cyril Mersham
listened. He heard the clatter of the barn door latch, and a
slurring ring of a bicycle-bell brushing the wall. "Who is it?" he asked, unsuspecting. She looked at him, and confessed with her eyes, guiltily,
beseeching. He understood immediately. "Good Lord!--Him?" He looked at the photo on the mantelpiece.
She nodded with her usual despair, her finger between her lips
again. Mersham took some moments to adjust himself to the new
situation. "Well!--so he's in my place! Why didn't you tell
me?" "How could I?--he's not. Besides--you never would have a
place." She hid her face. "No," he drawled, thinking deeply. "I wouldn't. It's my fault
altogether." Then he smiled, and said whimsically: "But I thought
you kept an old pair of my gloves in the chair beside you." "So I did, so I did!" she justified herself again with extreme
bitterness, "till you asked me for them. You told me to--to take
another man--and I did as you told me--as usual." "Did I tell you?--did I tell you? I suppose I must. I suppose
I am a fool. And do you like him?" She laughed aloud, with scorn and bitterness. "He's very good--and he's very fond of me." "Naturally!" said Mersham, smiling and becoming ironical. "And
how firmly is he fixed?" ? 
IV
 ? She was mortified, and would not answer him. The question for
him now was how much did this intruder count. He looked, and saw
she wore no ring--but perhaps she had taken it off for his
coming. He began diligently to calculate what attitude he might
take. He had looked for many women to wake his love, but he had
been always disappointed. So he had kept himself virtuous, and
waited. Now he would wait no longer. No woman and he could ever
understand each other so well as he and Muriel whom he had
fiercely educated into womanhood along with his own struggling
towards a manhood of independent outlook. They had breathed the
same air of thought, they had been beaten with the same storms of
doubt and disillusionment, they had expanded together in days of
pure poetry. They had grown so; spiritually, or rather
psychically, as he preferred to say, they were married; and now
he found himself thinking of the way she moved about the
house. The outer door had opened and a man had entered the kitchen,
greeting the family cordially, and without any formality. He had
the throaty, penetrating voice of a tenor singer, and it came
distinctly over the vibrating rumble of the men's talking. He
spoke good, easy English. The boys asked him about the "iron-men"
and the electric haulage, and he answered them with rough
technicalities, so Mersham concluded he was a working electrician
in the mine. They continued to talk casually for some time,
though there was a false note of secondary interest in it all.
Then Benjamin came forward and broke the check, saying, with a
dash of braggart taunting: "Muriel's in th' parlour, Tom, if you want her." "Oh, is she? I saw a light in; I thought she might be." He
affected indifference, as if he were kept thus at every visit.
Then he added, with a touch of impatience, and of the
proprietor's interest: "What is she doing?" "She's talking. Cyril Mersham's come from London." "What!--is he here?" Mersham sat listening, smiling. Muriel saw his eyelids lift.
She had run up her flag of challenge taut, but continually she
slackened towards him with tenderness. Now her flag flew out
bravely. She rose, and went to the door. "Hello!" she said, greeting the stranger with a little song of
welcome in one word, such as girls use when they become aware of
the presence of their sweetheart. "You've got a visitor, I hear," he answered. "Yes. Come along, come in!" She spoke softly, with much gentle caressing. He was a handsome man, well set-up, rather shorter than
Mersham. The latter rose indolently, and held out his hand,
smiling curiously into the beautiful, generous blue eyes of the
other. "Cyril--Mr. Vickers." Tom Vickers crushed Mersham's hand, and answered his steady,
smiling regard with a warm expansion of feeling, then bent his
head, slightly confused. "Sit here, will you?" said Mersham, languidly indicating the
armchair. "No, no, thanks, I won't. I shall do here, thanks." Tom
Vickers took a chair and placed it in front of the fire. He was
confusedly charmed with Mersham's natural frankness and
courtesy. "If I'm not intruding," he added, as he sat down. "No, of course not!" said Muriel, in her wonderfully soft,
fond tones--the indulgent tone of a woman who will sacrifice
anything to love. "Couldn't!" added Mersham lazily. "We're always a public
meeting, Muriel and I. Aren't we, Miel? We're discussing
affinities, that ancient topic. You'll do for an audience. We
agree so beastly well, we two. We always did. It's her fault.
Does she treat you so badly?" The other was rather bewildered. Out of it all he dimly
gathered that he was suggested as the present lover of Muriel,
while Mersham referred to himself as the one discarded. So he
smiled, reassured. "How--badly?" he asked. "Agreeing with you on every point?" "No, I can't say she does that," said Vickers, smiling, and
looking with little warm glances at her. "Why, we never disagree, you know!" she remonstrated, in the
same deep indulgent tone. "I see," Mersham said languidly, and yet keeping his wits
keenly to the point. "You agree with everything she
says. Lord, how interesting!" Muriel arched her eyelids with a fine flare of intelligence
across at him, and laughed. "Something like that," answered the other man, also
indulgently, as became a healthy male towards one who lay limply
in a chair and said clever nothings in a lazy drawl. Mersham
noted the fine limbs, the solid, large thighs, and the thick
wrists. He was classifying his rival among the men of handsome,
healthy animalism, and good intelligence, who are children in
simplicity, who can add two and two, but never xy and yx. His
contours, his movements, his repose were, strictly, lovable.
"But," said Mersham to himself, "if I were blind, or sorrowful,
or very tired, I should not want him. He is one of the men, as
George Moore says, whom his wife would hate after a few years for
the very way he walked across the floor. I can imagine him with a
family of children, a fine father. But unless he had a domestic
wife--" Muriel had begun to make talk to him. "Did you cycle?" she asked, in that irritating private tone so
common to lovers, a tone that makes a third person an
impertinence. "Yes--I was rather late," he replied, in the same caressing
manner. The sense did not matter, the caress was everything. "Didn't you find it very muddy?" "Well, I did--but not any worse than yesterday." Mersham sprawled his length in the chair, his eyelids almost
shut, his fine white hands hanging over the arms of the chair
like dead-white stoats from a bough. He was wondering how long
Muriel would endure to indulge her sweetheart thus. Soon she
began to talk second-hand to Mersham. They were speaking of Tom's
landlady. "You don't care for her, do you?" she asked, laughing
insinuatingly, since the shadow of his dislike for other women
heightened the radiance of his affection for her. "Well, I can't say that I love her." "How is it you always fall out with your landladies after six
months? You must be a wretch to live with." "Nay, I don't know that I am. But they're all alike; they're
jam and cakes at first, but after a bit they're dry bread." He spoke with solemnity, as if he uttered a universal truth.
Mersham's eyelids flickered now and again. Muriel turned to
him: "Mr. Vickers doesn't like lodgings," she said. Mersham understood that Vickers therefore wanted to marry her;
he also understood that as the pretendant tired of his
landladies, so his wife and he would probably weary one another.
He looked this intelligence at Muriel, and drawled: "Doesn't he? Lodgings are ideal. A good lodger can always boss
the show, and have his own way. It's the time of his life." "I don't think!" laughed Vickers. "It's true," drawled Mersham torpidly, giving his words the
effect of droll irony. "You're evidently not a good lodger. You
only need to sympathise with a landlady--against her husband
generally--and she'll move heaven and earth for you." "Ah!" laughed Muriel, glancing at Mersham. "Tom doesn't
believe in sympathising with women--especially married
women." "I don't!" said Tom emphatically, "--it's dangerous." "You leave it to the husband," said Mersham. "I do that! I don't want 'em coming to me with their troubles.
I should never know the end." "Wise of you. Poor woman! So you'll broach your barrel of
sympathy for your wife, eh, and for nobody else?" "That's it. Isn't that right?" "Oh, quite. Your wife will be a privileged person. Sort of
homebrewed beer to drink ad infinitum? Quite all right,
that!" "There's nothing better," said Tom, laughing. "Except a change," said Mersham. "Now, I'm like a cup of tea
to a woman." Muriel laughed aloud at this preposterous cynicism, and
knitted her brows to bid him cease playing ball with bombs. "A fresh cup each time. Women never weary of tea. Muriel, I
can see you having a rich time. Sort of long after-supper drowse
with a good husband." "Very delightful!" said Muriel sarcastically. "If she's got a good husband, what more can she want?" asked
Tom, keeping the tone of banter, but really serious and somewhat
resentful. "A lodger--to make things interesting." "Why," said Muriel, intervening, "do women like you so?" Mersham looked up at her, quietly, smiling into her eyes. She
was really perplexed. She wanted to know what he put in the pan
to make the balance go down so heavily on his side. He had, as
usual, to answer her seriously and truthfully, so he said:
"Because I can make them believe that black is green or
purple--which it is, in reality." Then, smiling broadly as she
wakened again with admiration for him, he added: "But you're
trying to make me conceited, Miel--to stain my virgin
modesty." Muriel glanced up at him with softness and understanding, and
laughed low. Tom gave a guffaw at the notion of Mersham's virgin
modesty. Muriel's brow wrinkled with irritation, and she turned
from her sweetheart to look in the fire. ? 
V
 ? Mersham, all unconsciously, had now developed the situation to
the climax he desired. He was sure that Vickers would not count
seriously in Muriel's movement towards himself. So he turned
away, uninterested. The talk drifted for some time, after which he suddenly
bethought himself: "I say, Mr. Vickers, will you sing for us? You do sing, don't
you?" "Well--nothing to speak of," replied the other modestly,
wondering at Mersham's sudden change of interest. He looked at
Muriel. "Very well," she answered him, indulging him now like a child.
"But--" she turned to Mersham--"but do you, really?" "Yes, of course. Play some of the old songs. Do you play any
better?" She began "Honour and Arms". "No, not that!" cried Mersham. "Something quiet--'Sois
triste et sois belle'." He smiled gently at her,
suggestively. "Try 'Du bist wie eine Blume' or
'Pur dicesti'." Vickers sang well, though without much imagination. But the
songs they sang were the old songs that Mersham had taught Muriel
years before, and she played with one of his memories in her
heart. At the end of the first song, she turned and found him
looking at her, and they met again in the poetry of the past. "Daffodils," he said softly, his eyes full of memories. She dilated, quivered with emotion, in response. They had sat
on the rim of the hill, where the wild daffodils stood up to the
sky, and there he had taught her, singing line by line: "Du
bist wie eine Blume." He had no voice, but a very accurate
ear. The evening wore on to ten o'clock. The lads came through the
room on their way to bed. The house was asleep save the father,
who sat alone in the kitchen, reading The Octopus. They
went in to supper. Mersham had roused himself and was talking well. Muriel
stimulated him, always, and turned him to talk of art and
philosophy--abstract things that she loved, of which only he had
ever spoken to her, of which only he could speak, she believed,
with such beauty. He used quaint turns of speech, contradicted
himself waywardly, then said something sad and whimsical, all in
a wistful, irresponsible manner so that even the men leaned
indulgent and deferential to him. "Life," he said, and he was always urging this on Muriel in
one form or another, "life is beautiful, so long as it is
consuming you. When it is rushing through you, destroying you,
life is glorious. It is best to roar away, like a fire with a
great draught, white-hot to the last bit. It's when you burn a
slow fire and save fuel that life's not worth having." "You believe in a short life and a merry," said the
father. "Needn't be either short or merry. Grief is part of the fire
of life--and suffering--they're the root of the flame of joy, as
they say. No! With life, we're like the man who was so anxious to
provide for his old age that he died at thirty from
inanition." "That's what we're not likely to do," laughed Tom. "Oh, I don't know. You live most intensely in human
contact--and that's what we shrink from, poor timid creatures,
from giving our souls to somebody to touch; for they, bungling
fools, will generally paw it with dirty hands." Muriel looked at him with dark eyes of grateful understanding.
She herself had been much pawed, brutally, by her brothers. But,
then, she had been foolish in offering herself. "And," concluded Mersham, "you are washed with the whitest
fire of life--when you take a woman you love--and
understand." Perhaps Mersham did not know what he was doing. Yet his whole
talk lifted Muriel as in a net, like a sea-maiden out of the
waters, and placed her in his arms, to breathe his thin, rare
atmosphere. She looked at him, and was certain of his pure
earnestness, and believed implicitly he could not do wrong. Vickers believed otherwise. He would have expressed his
opinion, whatever it might be, in an: "Oh, ay, he's got plenty to
say, and he'll keep on saying it--but, hang it all . . .!" For Vickers was an old-fashioned, inarticulate lover; such as
has been found the brief joy and the unending disappointment of a
woman's life. At last he found he must go, as Mersham would not
precede him. Muriel did not kiss him good-bye, nor did she offer
to go out with him to his bicycle. He was angry at this, but more
angry with the girl than with the man. He felt that she was
fooling about, "showing off" before the stranger. Mersham was a
stranger to him, and so, in his idea, to Muriel. Both young men
went out of the house together, and down the rough brick track to
the barn. Mersham made whimsical little jokes: "I wish my feet
weren't so fastidious. They dither when they go in a soft spot
like a girl who's touched a toad. Hark at that poor old
wretch--she sounds as if she'd got whooping-cough." "A cow is not coughing when she makes that row," said
Vickers. "Pretending, is she?--to get some Owbridge's? Don't blame her.
I guess she's got chilblains, at any rate. Do cows have
chilblains, poor devils?" Vickers laughed and felt he must take this man into his
protection. "Mind," he said, as they entered the barn, which was
very dark. "Mind your forehead against this beam." He put one
hand on the beam, and stretched out the other to feel for
Mersham. "Thanks," said the latter gratefully. He knew the
position of the beam to an inch, however dark the barn, but he
allowed Vickers to guide him past it. He rather enjoyed being
taken into Tom's protection. Vickers carefully struck a match, bowing over the ruddy core
of light and illuminating himself like some beautiful lantern in
the midst of the high darkness of the barn. For some moments he
bent over his bicycle-lamp, trimming and adjusting the wick, and
his face, gathering all the light on its ruddy beauty, seemed
luminous and wonderful. Mersham could see the down on his cheeks
above the razor-line, and the full lips in shadow beneath the
moustache, and the brush of the eyebrows between the light. "After all," said Mersham, "he's very beautiful; she's a fool
to give him up." Tom shut the lamp with a snap, and carefully crushed the match
under his foot. Then he took the pump from the bicycle, and
crouched on his heels in the dimness, inflating the tyre. The
swift, unerring, untiring stroke of the pump, the light balance
and the fine elastic adjustment of the man's body to his
movements pleased Mersham. "She could have," he was saying to himself, "some glorious
hours with this man--yet she'd rather have me, because I can make
her sad and set her wondering." But to the man he was saying: "You know, love isn't the twin-soul business. With you, for
instance, women are like apples on a tree. You can have one that
you can reach. Those that look best are overhead, but it's no
good bothering with them. So you stretch up, perhaps you pull
down a bough and just get your fingers round a good one. Then it
swings back and you feel wild and you say your heart's broken.
But there are plenty of apples as good for you no higher than
your chest." Vickers smiled, and thought there was something in
it--generally; but for himself, it was nothing. They went out of the barn to the yard gate. He watched the
young man swing over his saddle and vanish, calling
"Good-night." "Sic transit," he murmured--meaning Tom Vickers, and
beautiful lustihood that is unconscious like a blossom. Mersham went slowly in the house. Muriel was clearing away the
supper things, and laying the table again for the men's
breakfasts. But she was waiting for him as clearly as if she had
stood watching in the doorway. She looked up at him, and
instinctively he lifted his face towards her as if to kiss her.
They smiled, and she went on with her work. The father rose, stretching his burly form, and yawning.
Mersham put on his overcoat. "You will come a little way with me?" he said. She answered
him with her eyes. The father stood, large and silent, on the
hearth-rug. His sleepy, mazed disapproval had no more effect than
a little breeze which might blow against them. She smiled
brightly at her lover, like a child, as she pinned on her
hat. It was very dark outside in the starlight. He groaned heavily,
and swore with extravagance as he went ankle-deep in mud. "See, you should follow me. Come here," she commanded,
delighted to have him in charge. "Give me your hand," he said, and they went hand-in-hand over
the rough places. The fields were open, and the night went up to
the magnificent stars. The wood was very dark, and wet; they
leaned forward and stepped stealthily, and gripped each other's
hands fast with a delightful sense of adventure. When they stood
and looked up a moment, they did not know how the stars were
scattered among the tree-tops till he found the three jewels of
Orion right in front. There was a strangeness everywhere, as if all things had
ventured out alive to play in the night, as they do in
fairy-tales; the trees, the many stars, the dark spaces, and the
mysterious waters below uniting in some magnificent game. They emerged from the wood on to the bare hillside. She came
down from the wood-fence into his arms, and he kissed her, and
they laughed low together. Then they went on across the wild
meadows where there was no path. "Why don't you like him?" he asked playfully. "Need you ask?" she said simply. "Yes. Because he's heaps nicer than I am." She laughed a full laugh of amusement. "He is! Look! He's like summer, brown and full of warmth.
Think how splendid and fierce he'd be--" "Why do you talk about him?" she said. "Because I want you to know what you're losing--and you won't
till you see him in my terms. He is very desirable--I should
choose him in preference to me--for myself." "Should you?" she laughed. "But," she added with soft
certainty, "you don't understand." "No--I don't. I suppose it's love; your sort, which is beyond
me. I shall never be blindly in love, shall I?" "I begin to think you never will," she answered, not very
sadly. "You won't be blindly anything." "The voice of love!" he laughed; and then: "No, if you pull
your flowers to pieces, and find how they pollinate, and where
are the ovaries, you don't go in blind ecstasies over to them.
But they mean more to you; they are intimate, like friends of
your heart, not like wonderful, dazing fairies." "Ay!" she assented, musing over it with the gladness of
understanding him. "And then?" Softly, almost without words, she urged him to the point. "Well," he said, "you think I'm a wonderful, magical person,
don't you?--and I'm not--I'm not as good, in the long run, as
your Tom, who thinks you are a wonderful, magical person." She laughed and clung to him as they walked. He continued,
very carefully and gently: "Now, I don't imagine for a moment
that you are princessy or angelic or wonderful. You often make me
thundering mad because you're an ass . . ." She laughed low with shame and humiliation. "Nevertheless--I come from the south to you--because--well,
with you I can be just as I feel, conceited or idiotic, without
being afraid to be myself . . ." He broke off suddenly. "I don't
think I've tried to make myself out to you--any bigger or better
than I am?" he asked her wistfully. "No," she answered, in beautiful, deep assurance. "No! That's
where it is. You have always been so honest. You are more honest
than anybody ever--" She did not finish, being deeply moved. He
was silent for some time, then he continued, as if he must see
the question to the end with her: "But, you know--I do like you not to wear corsets. I like to
see you move inside your dress." She laughed, half shame, half pleasure. "I wondered if you'd notice," she said. "I did--directly." There was a space of silence, after which
he resumed: "You see--we would marry tomorrow--but I can't keep
myself. I am in debt--" She came close to him, and took his arm. "--And what's the good of letting the years go, and the beauty
of one's youth--?" "No," she admitted, very slowly and softly, shaking her
head. "So--well!--you understand, don't you? And if you're
willing--you'll come to me, won't you?--just naturally, as you
used to come and go to church with me?--and it won't be--it won't
be me coaxing you--reluctant? Will it?" They had halted in front of a stile which they would have to
climb. She turned to him in silence, and put up her face to him.
He took her in his arms, and kissed her, and felt the night mist
with which his moustache was drenched, and he bent his head and
rubbed his face on her shoulder, and then pressed his lips on her
neck. For a while they stood in silence, clasped together. Then
he heard her voice, muffled in his shoulder, saying: "But--but, you know--it's much harder for the woman--it means
something so different for a woman." "One can be wise," he answered, slowly and gently. "One need
not blunder into calamities." She was silent for a time. Then she spoke again. "Yes, but--if it should be--you see--I couldn't bear it." He let her go, and they drew apart, and the embrace no longer
choked them from speaking. He recognised the woman defensive,
playing the coward against her own inclinations, and even against
her knowledge. "If--if!" he exclaimed sharply, so that she shrank with a
little fear. "There need be no ifs--need there?" "I don't know," she replied, reproachfully, very quietly. "If I say so--" he said, angry with her mistrust. Then he
climbed the stile, and she followed. "But you do know," he exclaimed. "I have given you
books--" "Yes, but--" "But what?" He was getting really angry. "It's so different for a woman--you don't know." He did not answer this. They stumbled together over the
mole-hills, under the oak trees. "And look--how we should have to be--creeping together in the
dark--" This stung him; at once, it was as if the glamour went out of
life. It was as if she had tipped over the fine vessel that held
the wine of his desire, and had emptied him of all his vitality.
He had played a difficult, deeply-moving part all night, and now
the lights suddenly switched out, and there was left only
weariness. He was silent, tired, very tired, bodily and
spiritually. They walked across the wide, dark meadow with sunken
heads. Suddenly she caught his arm. "Don't be cold with me!" she cried. He bent and kissed in acknowledgment the lips she offered him
for love. "No," he said drearily; "no, it is not coldness--only--I have
lost hold--for to-night." He spoke with difficulty. It was hard
to find a word to say. They stood together, apart, under the old
thorn tree for some minutes, neither speaking. Then he climbed
the fence, and stood on the highway above the meadow. At parting also he had not kissed her. He stood a moment and
looked at her. The water in a little brook under the hedge was
running, chuckling with extraordinary loudness: away on
Nethermere they heard the sad, haunting cry of the wild-fowl from
the North. The stars still twinkled intensely. He was too spent
to think of anything to say; she was too overcome with grief and
fear and a little resentment. He looked down at the pale blotch
of her face upturned from the low meadow beyond the fence. The
thorn boughs tangled above her, drooping behind her like the roof
of a hut. Beyond was the great width of the darkness. He felt
unable to gather his energy to say anything vital. "Good-bye," he said. "I'm going back--on Saturday. But--you'll
write to me. Good-bye." He turned to go. He saw her white uplifted face vanish, and
her dark form bend under the boughs of the tree, and go out into
the great darkness. She did not say good-bye.</story>