<story title="MOTHER AND DAUGHTER" date="1929">
Virginia Bodoin had a good job: she was head of a department
in a certain government office, held a responsible position, and
earned, to imitate Balzac and be precise about it, seven hundred
and fifty pounds a year. That is already something. Rachel
Bodoin, her mother, had an income of about six hundred a year, on
which she had lived in the capitals of Europe since the
effacement of a never very important husband. Now, after some years of virtual separation and "freedom",
mother and daughter once more thought of settling down. They had
become, in course of time, more like a married couple than mother
and daughter. They knew one another very well indeed, and each
was a little "nervous" of the other. They had lived together and
parted several times. Virginia was now thirty, and she didn't
look like marrying. For four years she had been as good as
married to Henry Lubbock, a rather spoilt young man who was
musical. Then Henry let her down: for two reasons. He couldn't
stand her mother. Her mother couldn't stand him. And anybody whom
Mrs Bodoin could not stand she managed to sit on, disastrously.
So Henry had writhed horribly, feeling his mother-in-law sitting
on him tight, and Virginia, after all, in a helpless sort of
family loyalty, sitting alongside her mother. Virginia didn't
really want to sit on Henry. But when her mother egged her on,
she couldn't help it. For ultimately, her mother had power over
her; a strange female power, nothing to do with parental
authority. Virginia had long thrown parental authority to the
winds. But her mother had another, much subtler form of
domination, female and thrilling, so that when Rachel said: Let's
squash him! Virginia had to rush wickedly and gleefully to the
sport. And Henry knew quite well when he was being squashed. So
that was one of his reasons for going back on Vinny.--He called
her Vinny, to the superlative disgust of Mrs Bodoin, who always
corrected him: My daughter Virginia-- The second reason was, again to be Balzacian, that Virginia
hadn't a sou of her own. Henry had a sorry two hundred and fifty.
Virginia, at the age of twenty-four, was already earning four
hundred and fifty. But she was earning them. Whereas Henry
managed to earn about twelve pounds per annum, by his precious
music. He had realized that he would find it hard to earn more.
So that marrying, except with a wife who could keep him, was
rather out of the question. Vinny would inherit her mother's
money. But then Mrs Bodoin had the health and muscular equipment
of the Sphinx. She would live forever, seeking whom she might
devour, and devouring him. Henry lived with Vinny for two years,
in the married sense of the words: and Vinny felt they
were married, minus a mere ceremony. But Vinny had her
mother always in the background; often as far back as Paris or
Biarritz, but still, within letter reach. And she never realized
the funny little grin that came on her own elvish face when her
mother, even in a letter, spread her skirts and calmly sat on
Henry. She never realized that in spirit she promptly and
mischievously sat on him too: she could no more have helped it
than the tide can help turning to the moon. And she did not dream
that he felt it, and was utterly mortified in his masculine
vanity. Women, very often, hypnotize one another, and then,
hypnotized, they proceed gently to wring the neck of the man they
think they are loving with all their hearts. Then they call it
utter perversity on his part, that he doesn't like having his
neck wrung. They think he is repudiating a heart-felt love. For
they are hypnotized. Women hypnotize one another, without knowing
it. In the end, Henry backed out. He saw himself being simply
reduced to nothingness by two women, an old witch with muscles
like the Sphinx, and a young, spell-bound witch, lavish, elvish
and weak, who utterly spoilt him but who ate his marrow. Rachel would write from Paris: My dear Virginia, as I had a
windfall in the way of an investment, I am sharing it with you.
You will find enclosed my cheque for twenty pounds. No doubt you
will be needing it to buy Henry a suit of clothes, since the
spring is apparently come, and the sunlight may be tempted to
show him up for what he is worth. I don't want my daughter going
around with what is presumably a street-corner musician, but
please pay the tailor's bill yourself, or you may have to do it
over again later.--Henry got a suit of clothes, but it was as
good as a shirt of Nessus, eating him away with subtle
poison. So he backed out. He didn't jump out, or bolt, or carve his
way out at the sword's point. He sort of faded out, distributing
his departure over a year or more. He was fond of Vinny, and he
could hardly do without her, and he was sorry for her. But at
length he couldn't see her apart from her mother. She was a
young, weak, spendthrift witch, accomplice of her tough-clawed
witch of a mother. Henry made other alliances, got a good hold on elsewhere, and
gradually extricated himself. He saved his life, but he had lost,
he felt, a good deal of his youth and marrow. He tended now to go
fat, a little puffy, somewhat insignificant. And he had been
handsome and striking-looking. The two witches howled when he was lost to them. Poor Virginia
was really half crazy, she didn't know what to do with herself.
She had a violent recoil from her mother. Mrs Bodoin was filled
with furious contempt for her daughter: that she should let such
a hooked fish slip out of her hands! that she should allow such a
person to turn her down!--"I don't quite see my daughter seduced
and thrown over by a sponging individual such as Henry Lubbock,"
she wrote. "But if it has happened, I suppose it is somebody's
fault--" There was a mutual recoil, which lasted nearly five years. But
the spell was not broken. Mrs Bodoin's mind never left her
daughter, and Virginia was ceaselessly aware of her mother,
somewhere in the universe. They wrote, and met at intervals, but
they kept apart in recoil. The spell, however, was between them, and gradually it worked.
They felt more friendly. Mrs Bodoin came to London. She stayed in
the same quiet hotel with her daughter: Virginia had had two
rooms in an hotel for the past three years. And, at last, they
thought of taking an apartment together. Virginia was now over thirty. She was still thin and odd and
elvish, with a very slight and piquant cast in one of her brown
eyes, and she still had her odd, twisted smile, and her slow,
rather deep-toned voice, that caressed a man like the stroking of
subtle finger-tips. Her hair was still a natural tangle of curls,
a bit dishevelled. She still dressed with a natural elegance
which tended to go wrong and a tiny bit sluttish. She still might
have a hole in her expensive and perfectly new stockings, and
still she might have to take off her shoes in the drawing-room,
if she came to tea, and sit there in her stockinged-feet. True,
she had elegant feet: she was altogether elegantly shaped. But it
wasn't that. It was neither coquetry nor vanity. It was simply
that, after having gone to a good shoemaker and paid five guineas
for a pair of perfectly simple and natural shoes, made to her
feet, the said shoes would hurt her excruciatingly, when she had
walked half a mile in them, and she would simply have to take
them off, even if she sat on the kerb to do it. It was a
fatality. There was a touch of the gamin in her very feet,
a certain sluttishness that wouldn't let them stay properly in
nice proper shoes. She practically always wore her mother's old
shoes.--Of course I go through life in mother's old shoes. If she
died and left me without a supply, I suppose I should have to go
in a bathchair, she would say, with her odd twisted little grin.
She was so elegant, and yet a slut. It was her charm, really. Just the opposite of her mother. They could wear each other's
shoes and each other's clothes, which seemed remarkable, for Mrs
Bodoin seemed so much the bigger of the two. But Virginia's
shoulders were broad, if she was thin, she had a strong frame,
even when she looked a frail rag. Mrs Bodoin was one of those women of sixty or so, with a
terrible inward energy and a violent sort of vitality. But she
managed to hide it. She sat with perfect repose, and folded
hands. One thought: What a calm woman! Just as one may look at
the snowy summit of a quiescent volcano, in the evening light,
and think: What peace! It was a strange muscular energy which possessed Mrs
Bodoin, as it possesses, curiously enough, many women over fifty,
and is usually distasteful in its manifestations. Perhaps it
accounts for the lassitude of the young. But Mrs Bodoin recognized the bad taste in her energetic
coevals, so she cultivated repose. Her very way of pronouncing
the word, in two syllables: re-pose, making the second syllable
run on into the twilight, showed how much suppressed energy she
had. Faced with the problem of iron-grey hair and black eyebrows,
she was too clever to try dyeing herself back into youth. She
studied her face, her whole figure, and decided that it was
positive. There was no denying it. There was no wispiness,
no hollowness, no limp frail blossom-on-a-bending-stalk about
her. Her figure, though not stout, was full, strong, and
cambré. Her face had an aristocratic arched nose,
aristocratic, who-the-devil-are-you grey eyes, and cheeks rather
long but also rather full. Nothing appealing or youthfully
skittish here. Like an independent woman, she used her wits, and decided most
emphatically not to be either youthful or skittish or appealing.
She would keep her dignity, for she was fond of it. She was
positive. She liked to be positive. She was used to her
positivity. So she would just be positive. She turned to the positive period; to the eighteenth century,
to Voltaire, to Ninon de l'Enclos and the Pompadour, to Madame la
Duchesse and Monsieur le Marquis. She decided that she was not
much in the line of la Pompadour or la Duchesse, but almost
exactly in the line of Monsieur le Marquis. And she was right.
With hair silvering to white, brushed back clean from her
positive brow and temples, cut short, but sticking out a little
behind, with her rather full, pink face and thin black eyebrows
plucked to two fine, superficial crescents, her arching nose and
her rather full insolent eyes she was perfectly
eighteenth-century, the early half. That she was Monsieur le
Marquis rather than Madame la Marquise made her really
modern. Her appearance was perfect. She wore delicate combinations of
grey and pink, maybe with a darkening iron-grey touch, and her
jewels were of soft old coloured paste. Her bearing was a sort of
alert repose, very calm, but very assured. There was, to use a
vulgarism, no getting past her. She had a couple of thousand pounds she could lay hands on.
Virginia, of course, was always in debt. But, after all, Virginia
was not to be sniffed at. She made seven hundred and fifty a
year. Virginia was oddly clever, and not clever. She didn't
really know anything, because anything and everything was
interesting to her for the moment, and she picked it up at once.
She picked up languages with extraordinary ease, she was fluent
in a fortnight. This helped her enormously with her job. She
could prattle away with heads of industry, let them come from
where they liked. But she didn't know any language, not
even her own. She picked things up in her sleep, so to speak,
without knowing anything about them. And this made her popular with men. With all her curious
facility, they didn't feel small in front of her, because she was
like an instrument. She had to be prompted. Some man had to set
her in motion, and then she worked, really cleverly. She could
collect the most valuable information. She was very useful. She
worked with men, spent most of her time with men, her friends
were practically all men. She didn't feel easy with women. Yet she had no lover, nobody seemed eager to marry her, nobody
seemed eager to come close to her at all. Mrs Bodoin said: I'm
afraid Virginia is a one-man woman. I am a one-man woman. So was
my mother, and so was my grandmother. Virginia's father was the
only man in my life, the only one. And I'm afraid Virginia is the
same, tenacious. Unfortunately, the man was what he was, and her
life is just left there. Henry had said, in the past, that Mrs Bodoin wasn't a one-man
woman, she was a no-man woman, and that if she could have had her
way, everything male would have been wiped off the face of the
earth, and only the female element left. However, Mrs Bodoin thought that it was now time to make a
move. So she and Virginia took a quite handsome apartment in one
of the old Bloomsbury Squares, fitted it up and furnished it with
extreme care, and with some quite lovely things, got in a very
good man, an Austrian, to cook, and they set up married life
together, mother and daughter. At first it was rather thrilling. The two reception-rooms,
looking down on the dirty old trees of the square garden, were of
splendid proportions, and each with three great windows coming
down low, almost to the level of the knees. The chimney-piece was
late eighteenth-century. Mrs Bodoin furnished the rooms with a
gentle suggestion of Louis Seize merged with Empire, without
keeping to any particular style. But she had, saved from her own
home, a really remarkable Aubusson carpet. It looked almost new,
as if it had been woven two years ago, and was startling, yet
somehow rather splendid, as it spread its rose-red borders and
wonderful florid array of silver-grey and gold-grey roses, lilies
and gorgeous swans and trumpeting volutes away over the floor.
Very aesthetic people found it rather loud, they preferred the
worn, dim yellowish Aubusson in the big bedroom. But Mrs Bodoin
loved her drawing-room carpet. It was positive, but it was not
vulgar. It had a certain grand air in its floridity. She felt it
gave her a proper footing. And it behaved very well with her
painted cabinets and grey-and-gold brocade chairs and big Chinese
vases, which she liked to fill with big flowers: single Chinese
peonies, big roses, great tulips, orange lilies. The dim room of
London, with all its atmospheric colour, would stand the big,
free, fisticuffing flowers. Virginia, for the first time in her life, had the pleasure of
making a home. She was again entirely under her mother's spell,
and swept away, thrilled to her marrow. She had had no idea that
her mother had got such treasures as the carpets and painted
cabinets and brocade chairs up her sleeve: many of them the
débris of the Fitzpatrick home in Ireland, Mrs Bodoin
being a Fitzpatrick. Almost like a child, like a bride, Virginia
threw herself into the business of fixing up the rooms. "Of
course, Virginia, I consider this is your apartment," said
Mrs Bodoin. "I am nothing but your dame de compagnie, and
shall carry out your wishes entirely, if you will only express
them." Of course Virginia expressed a few, but not many. She
introduced some wild pictures bought from impecunious artists
whom she patronized. Mrs Bodoin thought the pictures positive
about the wrong things, but as far as possible, she let them
stay: looking on them as the necessary element of modern
ugliness. But by that element of modern ugliness, wilfully so, it
was easy to see the things that Virginia had introduced into the
apartment. Perhaps nothing goes to the head like setting up house. You
can get drunk on it. You feel you are creating something.
Nowadays it is no longer the "home", the domestic nest. It is "my
rooms", or "my house", the great garment which reveals and
clothes "my personality". Mrs Bodoin, deliberately scheming for
Virginia, kept moderately cool over it, but even she was thrilled
to the marrow, and of an intensity and ferocity with the
decorators and furnishers, astonishing. But Virginia was just all
the time tipsy with it, as if she had touched some magic button
on the grey wall of life, and with an Open Sesame! her lovely and
coloured rooms had begun to assemble out of fairyland. It was far
more vivid and wonderful to her than if she had inherited a
duchy. The mother and daughter, the mother in a sort of faded russet
crimson and the daughter in silver, began to entertain. They had,
of course, mostly men. It filled Mrs Bodoin with a sort of savage
impatience to entertain women. Besides, most of Virginia's
acquaintances were men. So there were dinners and well-arranged
evenings. It went well, but something was missing. Mrs Bodoin wanted to
be gracious, so she held herself rather back. She stayed a little
distant, was calm, reposed, eighteenth-century, and determined to
be a foil to the clever and slightly-elvish Virginia. It was a
pose, and alas, it stopped something. She was very nice with the
men, no matter what her contempt of them. But the men were uneasy
with her: afraid. What they all felt, all the men guests, was that for
them, nothing really happened. Everything that happened was
between mother and daughter. All the flow was between mother and
daughter. A subtle, hypnotic spell encompassed the two women, and
try as they might, the men were shut out. More than one young
man, a little dazzled, began to fall in love with
Virginia. But it was impossible. Not only was he shut out, he
was, in some way, annihilated. The spontaneity was killed in his
bosom. While the two women sat, brilliant and rather wonderful,
in magnetic connection at opposite ends of the table, like two
witches, a double Circe turning the men not into swine--the men
would have liked that well enough--but into lumps. It was tragic. Because Mrs Bodoin wanted Virginia to fall in
love and marry. She really wanted it, and she attributed
Virginia's lack of forthcoming to the delinquent Henry. She never
realized the hypnotic spell, which of course encompassed her as
well as Virginia, and made men just an impossibility to both
women, mother and daughter alike. At this time, Mrs Bodoin hid her humour. She had a really
marvellous faculty of humorous imitation. She could imitate the
Irish servants from her old home, or the American women who
called on her, or the modern lady-like young men, the asphodels,
as she called them: "Of course you know the asphodel is a kind of
onion! Oh yes, just an over-bred onion": who wanted, with their
murmuring voices and peeping under their brows, to make her feel
very small and very bourgeois. She could imitate them all with a
humour that was really touched with genius. But it was
devastating. It demolished the objects of her humour so
absolutely, smashed them to bits with a ruthless hammer, pounded
them to nothing so terribly, that it frightened people,
particularly men. It frightened men off. So she hid it. She hid it. But there it was, up her sleeve,
her merciless, hammer-like humour, which just smashed its object
on the head and left him brained. She tried to disown it. She
tried to pretend, even to Virginia, that she had the gift no
more. But in vain; the hammer hidden up her sleeve hovered over
the head of every guest, and every guest felt his scalp creep,
and Virginia felt her inside creep with a little, mischievous,
slightly idiotic grin, as still another fool male was mystically
knocked on the head. It was a sort of uncanny sport. No, the plan was not going to work: the plan of having
Virginia fall in love and marry. Of course the men were
such lumps, such oeufs farcies. There was one, at least,
that Mrs Bodoin had real hopes of. He was a healthy and normal
and very good-looking boy of good family, with no money, alas,
but clerking to the House of Lords and very hopeful, and not very
clever, but simply in love with Virginia's cleverness. He was
just the one Mrs Bodoin would have married for herself. True, he
was only twenty-six, to Virginia's thirty-one. But he had rowed
in the Oxford eight, and adored horses, talked horses adorably,
and was simply infatuated by Virginia's cleverness. To him
Virginia had the finest mind on earth. She was as wonderful as
Plato, but infinitely more attractive, because she was a woman,
and winsome with it. Imagine a winsome Plato with untidy curls
and the tiniest little brown-eyed squint and just a hint of
woman's pathetic need for a protector, and you may imagine
Adrian's feeling for Virginia. He adored her on his knees, but he
felt he could protect her. "Of course he's just a very nice boy!" said Mrs Bodoin.
"He's a boy, and that's all you can say. And he always will be a
boy. But that's the very nicest kind of man, the only kind you
can live with: the eternal boy. Virginia, aren't you attracted to
him?" "Yes, Mother! I think he's an awfully nice boy, as you
say," replied Virginia, in her rather slow, musical, whimsical
voice. But the mocking little curl in the intonation put the lid
on Adrian. Virginia was not marrying a nice boy! She could
be malicious too, against her mother's taste. And Mrs Bodoin let
escape her a faint gesture of impatience. For she had been planning her own retreat, planning to give
Virginia the apartment outright, and half of her own income, if
she would marry Adrian. Yes, the mother was already scheming how
best she could live with dignity on three hundred a year, once
Virginia was happily married to that most attractive if slightly
brainless boy. A year later, when Virginia was thirty-two, Adrian, who had
married a wealthy American girl and been transferred to a job in
the legation at Washington in the meantime, faithfully came to
see Virginia as soon as he was in London, faithfully kneeled at
her feet, faithfully thought her the most wonderful spiritual
being, and faithfully felt that she, Virginia, could have done
wonders with him, which wonders would now never be done, for he
had married in the meantime. Virginia was looking haggard and worn. The scheme of a
ménage à deux with her mother had not
succeeded. And now, work was telling on the younger woman. It is
true, she was amazingly facile. But facility wouldn't get her all
the way. She had to earn her money, and earn it hard. She had to
slog, and she had to concentrate. While she could work by quick
intuition and without much responsibility, work thrilled her. But
as soon as she had to get down to it, as they say, grip and slog
and concentrate, in a really responsible position, it wore her
out terribly. She had to do it all off her nerves. She hadn't the
same sort of fighting power as a man. Where a man can summon his
old Adam in him to fight through his work, a woman has to draw on
her nerves, and on her nerves alone. For the old Eve in her will
have nothing to do with such work. So that mental responsibility,
mental concentration, mental slogging wear out a woman terribly,
especially if she is head of a department, and not working
for somebody. So poor Virginia was worn out. She was thin as a rail. Her
nerves were frayed to bits. And she could never forget her
beastly work. She would come home at teatime speechless and done
for. Her mother, tortured by the sight of her, longed to say: Has
anything gone wrong, Virginia? Have you had anything particularly
trying at the office today?--But she learned to hold her tongue,
and say nothing. The question would be the last straw to
Virginia's poor overwrought nerves, and there would be a little
scene which, despite Mrs Bodoin's calm and forbearance, offended
the elder woman to the quick. She had learned, by bitter
experience, to leave her child alone, as one would leave a frail
tube of vitriol alone. But of course, she could not keep her
mind off Virginia. That was impossible. And poor Virginia,
under the strain of work and the strain of her mother's awful
ceaseless mind, was at the very end of her strength and
resources. Mrs Bodoin had always disliked the fact of Virginia's doing a
job. But now she hated it. She hated the whole government office
with violent and virulent hate. Not only was it undignified for
Virginia to be tied up there, but it was turning her, Mrs
Bodoin's daughter, into a thin, nagging, fearsome old maid. Could
anything be more utterly English and humiliating to a well-born
Irishwoman? After a long day attending to the apartment, skilfully darning
one of the brocade chairs, polishing the Venetian mirrors to her
satisfaction, selecting flowers, doing certain shopping and
housekeeping, attending perfectly to everything, then receiving
callers in the afternoon, with never-ending energy, Mrs Bodoin
would go up from the drawing-room after tea and write a few
letters, take her bath, dress with great care--she enjoyed
attending to her person--and come down to dinner as fresh as a
daisy, but far more energetic than that quiet flower. She was
ready now for a full evening. She was conscious, with gnawing anxiety, of Virginia's
presence in the house, but she did not see her daughter till
dinner was announced. Virginia slipped in, and away to her room
unseen, never going into the drawing-room to tea. If Mrs Bodoin
heard her daughter's key in the latch, she quickly retired into
one of the rooms till Virginia was safely through. It was too
much for poor Virginia's nerves even to catch sight of anybody in
the house, when she came in from the office. Bad enough to hear
the murmur of visitors' voices behind the drawing-room door. And Mrs Bodoin would wonder: How is she? How is she to-night?
I wonder what sort of a day she's had?--And this thought would
roam prowling through the house, to where Virginia was lying on
her back in her room. But the mother would have to consume her
anxiety till dinner-time. And then Virginia would appear, with
black lines under her eyes, thin, tense, a young woman out of an
office, the stigma upon her: badly dressed, a little acid in
humour, with an impaired digestion, not interested in anything,
blighted by her work. And Mrs Bodoin, humiliated at the very
sight of her, would control herself perfectly, say nothing but
the mere smooth nothings of casual speech, and sit in perfect
form presiding at a carefully-cooked dinner thought out entirely
to please Virginia. Then Virginia hardly noticed what she
ate. Mrs Bodoin was pining for an evening with life in it. But
Virginia would lie on the couch and put on the loudspeaker. Or
she would put a humorous record on the gramophone, and be amused,
and hear it again, and be amused, and hear it again, six times,
and six times be amused by a mildly funny record that Mrs Bodoin
now knew off by heart. "Why, Virginia, I could repeat that record
over to you, if you wished it, without your troubling to wind up
that gramophone."--And Virginia, after a pause in which she
seemed not to have heard what her mother said, would reply, "I'm
sure you could, mother". And that simple speech would convey such
volumes of contempt for all that Rachel Bodoin was or ever could
be or ever had been, contempt for her energy, her vitality, her
mind, her body, her very existence, that the elder woman would
curl. It seemed as if the ghost of Robert Bodoin spoke out of the
mouth of the daughter, in deadly venom.--Then Virginia would put
on the record for the seventh time. During the second ghastly year, Mrs Bodoin realized that the
game was up. She was a beaten woman, a woman without object or
meaning any more. The hammer of her awful female humour, which
had knocked so many people on the head, all the people, in fact,
that she had come into contact with, had at last flown backwards
and hit herself on the head. For her daughter was her other self,
her alter ego. The secret and the meaning and the power of
Mrs Bodoin's whole life lay in the hammer, that hammer of her
living humour which knocked everything on the head. That had been
her lust and her passion, knocking everybody and everything
humorously on the head. She had felt inspired in it: it was a
sort of mission. And she had hoped to hand on the hammer to
Virginia, her clever, unsolid but still actual daughter,
Virginia. Virginia was the continuation of Rachel's own self.
Virginia was Rachel's alter ego, her other self. But, alas, it was a half-truth. Virginia had had a father.
This fact, which had been utterly ignored by the mother, was
gradually brought home to her by the curious recoil of the
hammer. Virginia was her father's daughter. Could anything be
more unseemly, horrid, more perverse in the natural scheme of
things? For Robert Bodoin had been fully and deservedly knocked
on the head by Rachel's hammer. Could anything, then, be more
disgusting than that he should resurrect again in the person of
Mrs Bodoin's own daughter, her own alter ego Virginia, and
start hitting back with a little spiteful hammer that was David's
pebble against Goliath's battle-axe! But the little pebble was mortal. Mrs Bodoin felt it sink into
her brow, her temple, and she was finished. The hammer fell
nerveless from her hand. The two women were now mostly alone. Virginia was too tired to
have company in the evening. So there was the gramophone or
loudspeaker, or else silence. Both women had come to loathe the
apartment. Virginia felt it was the last grand act of bullying on
her mother's part, she felt bullied by the assertive Aubusson
carpet, by the beastly Venetian mirrors, by the big overcultured
flowers. She even felt bullied by the excellent food, and longed
again for a Soho restaurant and her two poky shabby rooms in the
hotel. She loathed the apartment: she loathed everything. But she
had not the energy to move. She had not the energy to do
anything. She crawled to her work, and for the rest, she lay
flat, gone. It was Virginia's worn-out inertia that really finished Mrs
Bodoin. That was the pebble that broke the bone of her temple:
"To have to attend my daughter's funeral, and accept the sympathy
of all her fellow-clerks in her office, no, that is a final
humiliation which I must spare myself. No! If Virginia must be a
lady-clerk, she must be it henceforth on her own responsibility.
I will retire from her existence." Mrs Bodoin had tried hard to persuade Virginia to give up her
work and come and live with her. She had offered her half her
income. In vain. Virginia stuck to her office. Very well! So be it!--The apartment was a fiasco, Mrs Bodoin
was longing, longing to tear it to pieces again. One last and
final blow of the hammer!--"Virginia, don't you think we'd better
get rid of this apartment, and live around as we used to? Don't
you think we'll do that?"--"But all the money you've put into it?
And the lease for ten years!" cried Virginia, in a kind of
inertia.--"Never mind! We had the pleasure of making it. And
we've had as much pleasure out of living in it as we shall ever
have. Now we'd better get rid of it--quickly--don't you
think?" Mrs Bodoin's arms were twitching to snatch the pictures off
the walls, roll up the Aubusson carpet, take the china out of the
ivory-inlaid cabinet there and then, at that very moment. "Let us wait till Sunday before we decide," said Virginia. "Till Sunday! Four days! As long as that? Haven't we already
decided in our own minds?" said Mrs Bodoin. "We'll wait till Sunday, anyhow," said Virginia. The next evening, the Armenian came to dinner. Virginia called
him Arnold, with the French pronunciation, Arnault. Mrs Bodoin,
who barely tolerated him, and could never get his name, which
seemed to have a lot of bouyoums in it, called him either the
Armenian, or the Rahat Lakoum, after the name of the sweetmeat,
or simply The Turkish Delight. "Arnault is coming to dinner to-night, Mother." "Really! The Turkish Delight is coming here to dinner? Shall I
provide anything special?"--Her voice sounded as if she would
suggest snails in aspic. "I don't think so." Virginia had seen a good deal of the Armenian at the office,
when she had to negotiate with him on behalf of the Board of
Trade. He was a man of about sixty, a merchant, had been a
millionaire, was ruined during the war, but was now coming on
again, and represented trade in Bulgaria. He wanted to negotiate
with the British Government, and the British Government sensibly
negotiated with him: at first through the medium of Virginia. Now
things were going satisfactorily between Monsieur Arnault, as
Virginia called him, and the Board of Trade, so that a sort of
friendship had followed the official relations. The Turkish Delight was sixty, grey-haired and fat. He had
numerous grandchildren growing up in Bulgaria, but he was a
widower. He had a grey moustache cut like a brush, and glazed
brown eyes over which hung heavy lids with white lashes. His
manner was humble, but in his bearing there was a certain dogged
conceit. One notices the combination sometimes in Jews. He had
been very wealthy and kow-towed to, he had been ruined and
humiliated, terribly humiliated, and now, doggedly, he was rising
up again, his sons backing him, away in Bulgaria. One felt he was
not alone. He had his sons, his family, his tribe behind him,
away in the Near East. He spoke bad English, but fairly fluent guttural French. He
did not speak much, but he sat. He sat, with his short, fat
thighs, as if for eternity, there. There was a strange
potency in his fat immobile sitting, as if his posterior were
connected with the very centre of the earth. And his brain,
spinning away at the one point in question, business, was very
agile. Business absorbed him. But not in a nervous, personal way.
Somehow the family, the tribe was always felt behind him. It was
business for the family, the tribe. With the English he was humble, for the English like such
aliens to be humble, and he had had a long schooling from the
Turks. And he was always an outsider. Nobody would ever take any
notice of him in society. He would just be an outsider,
sitting. "I hope, Virginia, you won't ask that Turkish-carpet gentleman
when we have other people. I can bear it," said Mrs
Bodoin. "Some people might mind." "Isn't it hard when you can't choose your own company in your
own house!" mocked Virginia. "No! I don't care. I can meet anything; and I'm sure,
in the way of selling Turkish carpets, your acquaintance is very
good. But I don't suppose you look on him as a personal
friend--?" "I do. I like him quite a lot." "Well--! as you will. But consider your other
friends." Mrs Bodoin was really mortified this time. She looked on the
Armenian as one looks on the fat Levantine in a fez who tries to
sell one hideous tapestries at Port Said, or on the sea-front at
Nice, as being outside the class of human beings, and in the
class of insects. That he had been a millionaire, and might be a
millionaire again, only added venom to her feeling of disgust at
being forced into contact with such scum. She could not even
squash him, or annihilate him. In scum, there is nothing to
squash, for scum is only the unpleasant residue of that which was
never anything but squashed. However, she was not quite just. True, he was fat, and he sat,
with short thighs, like a toad, as if seated for a toad's
eternity. His colour was of a dirty sort of paste, his black eyes
were glazed under heavy lids. And he never spoke until spoken to,
waiting in his toad's silence, like a slave. But his thick, fine white hair, which stood up on his head
like a soft brush, was curiously virile. And his curious small
hands, of the same soft dull paste, had a peculiar, fat, soft
masculine breeding of their own. And his dull brown eye could
glint with the subtlety of serpents, under the white brush of
eyelash. He was tired, but he was not defeated. He had fought,
and won, and lost, and was fighting again, always at a
disadvantage. He belonged to a defeated race which accepts
defeat, but which gets its own back by cunning. He was the father
of sons, the head of a family, one of the heads of a defeated but
indestructible tribe. He was not alone, and so you could not lay
your finger on him. His whole consciousness was patriarchal and
tribal. And somehow, he was humble, but he was
indestructible. At dinner he sat half-effaced, humble, yet with the conceit of
the humble. His manners were perfectly good, rather French.
Virginia chattered to him in French, and he replied with that
peculiar nonchalance of the boulevards, which was the only manner
he could command when speaking French. Mrs Bodoin understood, but
she was what one would call a heavy-footed linguist, so when she
said anything, it was intensely in English. And the Turkish
Delight replied in his clumsy English, hastily. It was not his
fault that French was being spoken. It was Virginia's. He was very humble, conciliatory, with Mrs Bodoin. But he cast
at her sometimes that rapid glint of a reptilian glance as if to
say: Yes! I see you! You are a handsome figure. As an objet de
vertu you are almost perfect.--Thus his connoisseur's,
antique-dealer's eye would appraise her. But then his thick white
eyebrows would seem to add: But what, under holy Heaven, are you
as a woman? You are neither wife nor mother nor mistress, you
have no perfume of sex, you are more dreadful than a Turkish
soldier or an English official. No man on earth could embrace
you. You are a ghoul, you are a strange genie from the
underworld!--And he would secretly invoke the holy names, to
shield him. Yet he was in love with Virginia. He saw, first and foremost,
the child in her, as if she were a lost child in the gutter, a
waif with a faint, fascinating cast in her brown eyes, waiting
till someone would pick her up. A fatherless waif! And he was
tribal father, father through all the ages. Then, on the other hand, he knew her peculiar disinterested
cleverness in affairs. That, too, fascinated him: that odd,
almost second-sight cleverness about business, and entirely
impersonal, entirely in the air. It seemed to him very strange.
But it would be an immense help to him in his schemes. He did not
really understand the English. He was at sea with them. But with
her, he would have a clue to everything. For she was, finally,
quite a somebody among these English, these English
officials. He was about sixty. His family was established, in the East,
his grandsons were growing up. It was necessary for him to live
in London, for some years. This girl would be useful. She had no
money, save what she would inherit from her mother. But he would
risk that: she would be an investment in his business. And then
the apartment. He liked the apartment extremely. He recognized
the cachet, and the lilies and swans of the Aubusson
carpet really did something to him. Virginia said to him: Mother
gave me the apartment.--So he looked on that as safe. And
finally, Virginia was almost a virgin, probably quite a virgin,
and, as far as the paternal oriental male like himself was
concerned, entirely virgin. He had a very small idea of the silly
puppy-sexuality of the English, so different from the prolonged
male voluptuousness of his own pleasures. And last of all, he was
physically lonely, getting old, and tired. Virginia of course did not know why she liked being with
Arnault. Her cleverness was amazingly stupid when it came to
life, to living. She said he was "quaint". She said his
nonchalant French of the boulevards was "amusing". She found his
business cunning "intriguing", and the glint in his dark glazed
eyes, under the white, thick lashes, "sheiky". She saw him quite
often, had tea with him in his hotel, and motored with him one
day down to the sea. When he took her hand in his own soft still hands, there was
something so caressing, so possessive in his touch, so strange
and positive in his leaning towards her, that though she trembled
with fear, she was helpless.--"But you are so thin, dear little
thin thing, you need repose, repose, for the blossom to open,
poor little blossom, to become a little fat!" he said in his
French. She quivered, and was helpless. It certainly was quaint! He
was so strange and positive, he seemed to have all the power. The
moment he realized that she would succumb into his power, he took
full charge of the situation, he lost all his hesitation and his
humility. He did not want just to make love to her: he wanted to
marry her, for all his multifarious reasons. And he must make
himself master of her. He put her hand to his lips, and seemed to draw her life to
his in kissing her thin hand. "The poor child is tired, she needs
repose, she needs to be caressed and cared for," he said in his
French. And he drew nearer to her. She looked up in dread at his glinting, tired dark eyes under
the white lashes. But he used all his will, looking back at her
heavily and calculating that she must submit. And he brought his
body quite near to her, and put his hand softly on her face, and
made her lay her face against his breast, as he soothingly
stroked her arm with his other hand, "Dear little thing! dear
little thing! Arnault loves her so dearly! Arnault loves her!
Perhaps she will marry her Arnault. Dear little girl, Arnault
will put flowers in her life, and make her life perfumed with
sweetness and content." She leaned against his breast and let him caress her. She gave
a fleeting, half poignant, half vindictive thought to her mother.
Then she felt in the air the sense of destiny, destiny. Oh so
nice, not to have to struggle. To give way to destiny. "Will she marry her old Arnault? Eh? Will she marry him?" he
asked in a soothing, caressing voice, at the same time
compulsive. She lifted her head and looked at him: the thick white brows,
the glinting, tired dark eyes. How queer and comic! How comic to
be in his power! And he was looking a little baffled. "Shall I?" she said, with her mischievous twist of a grin. "Mais oui!" he said, with all the sang froid of his old eyes.
"Mais oui! Je te contenterai, tu le verras." "Tu me contenteras!" she said, with a flickering smile of real
amusement at his assurance. "Will you really content me?" "But surely! I assure it you. And you will marry me?" "You must tell mother," she said, and hid wickedly against his
waistcoat again, while the male pride triumphed in him. Mrs Bodoin had no idea that Virginia was intimate with the
Turkish Delight: she did not inquire into her daughter's
movements. During the famous dinner, she was calm and a little
aloof, but entirely self-possessed. When, after coffee, Virginia
left her alone with the Turkish Delight, she made no effort at
conversation, only glanced at the rather short, stout man in
correct dinner-jacket, and thought how his sort of fatness called
for a fez and the full muslin breeches of a bazaar merchant in
The Thief of Baghdad. "Do you really prefer to smoke a hookah?" she asked him, with
a slow drawl. "What is a hookah, please?" "One of those water-pipes. Don't you all smoke them, in the
East?" He only looked mystified and humble, and silence resumed. She
little knew what was simmering inside his stillness. "Madame," he said, "I want to ask you something." "You do? Then why not ask it?" came her slightly melancholy
drawl. "Yes! It is this. I wish I may have the honour to marry your
daughter. She is willing." There was a moment's blank pause. Then Mrs Bodoin leaned
towards him from her distance, with curious portentousness. "What was that you said?" she asked. "Repeat it!" "I wish I may have the honour to marry your daughter. She is
willing to take me." His dark, glazed eyes looked at her, then glanced away again.
Still leaning forward, she gazed fixedly on him, as if
spellbound, turned to stone. She was wearing pink topaz
ornaments, but he judged they were paste, moderately good. "Did I hear you say she is willing to take you?" came the
slow, melancholy, remote voice. "Madame, I think so," he said, with a bow. "I think we'll wait till she comes," she said, leaning
back. There was silence. She stared at the ceiling. He looked
closely round the room, at the furniture, at the china in the
ivory-inlaid cabinet. "I can settle five thousand pounds on Mademoiselle Virginia,
Madame," came his voice. "Am I correct to assume that she will
bring this apartment and its appointments into the marriage
settlement?" Absolute silence. He might as well have been on the moon. But
he was a good sitter. He just sat until Virginia came in. Mrs Bodoin was still staring at the ceiling. The iron had
entered her soul finally and fully. Virginia glanced at her, but
said: "Have a whisky-and-soda, Arnault?" He rose and came towards the decanters, and stood beside her:
a rather squat, stout man with white head, silent with misgiving.
There was the fizz of the syphon: then they came to their
chairs. "Arnault has spoken to you, Mother?" said Virginia. Mrs Bodoin sat up straight, and gazed at Virginia with big,
owlish eyes, haggard. Virginia was terrified, yet a little
thrilled. Her mother was beaten. "Is it true, Virginia, that you are willing to marry
this--oriental gentleman?" asked Mrs Bodoin slowly. "Yes, Mother, quite true," said Virginia, in her teasing soft
voice. Mrs Bodoin looked owlish and dazed. "May I be excused from having any part in it, or from having
anything to do with your future husband--I mean having any
business to transact with him?" she asked dazedly, in her slow,
distinct voice. "Why, of course!" said Virginia, frightened, smiling
oddly. There was a pause. Then Mrs Bodoin, feeling old and haggard,
pulled herself together again. "Am I to understand that your future husband would like to
possess this apartment?" came her voice. Virginia smiled quickly and crookedly. Arnault just sat,
planted on his posterior, and heard. She reposed on him. "Well--perhaps!" said Virginia. "Perhaps he would like to know
that I possessed it." She looked at him. Arnault nodded gravely. "And do you wish to possess it?" came Mrs Bodoin's slow
voice. "If it your intention to inhabit it, with your
husband?" She put eternities into her long, stressed
words. "Yes, I think it is," said Virginia. "You know you said
the apartment was mine, Mother." "Very well! It shall be so. I shall send my lawyer to
this--oriental gentleman, if you will leave written instructions
on my writing-table. May I ask when you think of
getting--married?" "When do you think, Arnault?" said Virginia. "Shall it be, in two weeks?" he said, sitting erect, with his
fists on his knees. "In about a fortnight, Mother," said Virginia. "I have heard! In two weeks! Very well! In two weeks
everything shall be at your disposal. And now, please excuse me."
She rose, made a slight general bow, and moved calmly and dimly
from the room. It was killing her, that she could not shriek
aloud and beat that Levantine out of the house. But she couldn't.
She had imposed the restraint on herself. Arnault stood and looked with glistening eyes round the room.
It would be his. When his sons came to England, here he would
receive them. He looked at Virginia. She too was white and haggard, now. And
she hung away from him, as if in resentment. She resented the
defeat of her mother. She was still capable of dismissing him for
ever, and going back to her mother. "Your mother is a wonderful lady," he said, going to Virginia
and taking her hand. "But she has no husband to shelter her, she
is unfortunate. I am sorry she will be alone. I should be happy
if she would like to stay here with us." The sly old fox knew what he was about. "I'm afraid there's no hope of that," said Virginia, with a
return to her old irony. She sat on the couch, and he caressed her softly and
paternally, and the very incongruity of it, there in her mother's
drawing-room, amused her. And because he saw that the things in
the drawing-room were handsome and valuable, and now they were
his, his blood flushed and he caressed the thin girl at his side
with passion, because she represented these valuable
surroundings, and brought them to his possession. And he said:
"And with me you will be very comfortable, very content, oh, I
shall make you content, not like Madame your mother. And you will
get fatter, and bloom like the rose. I shall make you bloom like
the rose. And shall we say next week, hein? Shall it be next
week, next Wednesday, that we marry? Wednesday is a good day.
Shall it be then?" "Very well!" said Virginia, caressed again into a luxurious
sense of destiny, reposing on fate, having to make no effort, no
more effort, all her life. Mrs Bodoin moved into an hotel next day, and came into the
apartment to pack up and extricate herself and her immediate
personal belongings only when Virginia was necessarily absent.
She and her daughter communicated by letter, as far as was
necessary. And in five days' time Mrs Bodoin was clear. All business that
could be settled was settled, all her trunks were removed. She
had five trunks, and that was all. Denuded and outcast, she would
depart to Paris, to live out the rest of her days. The last day, she waited in the drawing-room till Virginia
should come home. She sat there in her hat and street things,
like a stranger. "I just waited to say good-bye," she said. "I leave in the
morning for Paris. This is my address. I think everything is
settled; if not, let me know and I'll attend to it. Well,
good-bye!--and I hope you'll be very happy!" She dragged out the last words sinisterly; which restored
Virginia, who was beginning to lose her head. "Why, I think I may be," said Virginia, with the twist of a
smile. "I shouldn't wonder," said Mrs Bodoin pointedly and grimly. "I
think the Armenian grandpapa knows very well what he's about.
You're just the harem type, after all." The words came slowly,
dropping, each with a plop! of deep contempt. "I suppose I am! Rather fun!" said Virginia. "But I wonder
where I got it? Not from you, Mother--" she drawled
mischievously. "I should say not." "Perhaps daughters go by contraries, like dreams," mused
Virginia wickedly. "All the harem was left out of you, so perhaps
it all had to be put back into me." Mrs Bodoin flashed a look at her. "You have all my pity!" she said. "Thank you, dear. You have just a bit of mine."</story>