 <story title="RAWDON'S ROOF" date="1928">
Rawdon was the sort of man who said, privately, to his men
friends, over a glass of wine after dinner: "No woman shall sleep
again under my roof!" He said it with pride, rather vaunting, pursing his lips.
"Even my housekeeper goes home to sleep." But the housekeeper was a gentle old thing of about sixty, so
it seemed a little fantastic. Moreover, the man had a wife, of
whom he was secretly rather proud, as a piece of fine property,
and with whom he kept up a very witty correspondence, epistolary,
and whom he treated with humorous gallantry when they
occasionally met for half an hour. Also he had a love affair
going on. At least, if it wasn't a love affair, what was it?
However! "No, I've come to the determination that no woman shall ever
sleep under my roof again--not even a female cat!" One looked at the roof, and wondered what it had done amiss.
Besides, it wasn't his roof. He only rented the house. What does
a man mean, anyhow, when he says "my roof"? My roof! The
only roof I am conscious of having, myself, is the top of my
head. However, he hardly can have meant that no woman should
sleep under the elegant dome of his skull. Though there's no
telling. You see the top of a sleek head through a window, and
you say: "By Jove, what a pretty girl's head!" And after all,
when the individual comes out, it's in trousers. The point, however, is that Rawdon said so emphatically--no,
not emphatically, succinctly: "No woman shall ever again sleep
under my roof." It was a case of futurity. No doubt he had had
his ceilings whitewashed, and their memories put out. Or rather,
repainted, for it was a handsome wooden ceiling. Anyhow, if
ceilings have eyes, as walls have ears, then Rawdon had given his
ceilings a new outlook, with a new coat of paint, and all memory
of any woman's having slept under them--for after all, in decent
circumstances we sleep under ceilings, not under roofs--was wiped
out for ever. "And will you neither sleep under any woman's roof?" That pulled him up rather short. He was not prepared to sauce
his gander as he had sauced his goose. Even I could see the
thought flitting through his mind, that some of his pleasantest
holidays depended on the charm of his hostess. Even some of the
nicest hotels were run by women. "Ah! Well! That's not quite the same thing, you know. When one
leaves one's own house one gives up the keys of circumstance, so
to speak. But, as far as possible, I make it a rule not to sleep
under a roof that is openly, and obviously, and obtrusively a
woman's roof!" "Quite!" said I with a shudder. "So do I!" Now I understood his mysterious love affair less than ever. He
was never known to speak of this love affair: he did not even
write about it to his wife. The lady--for she was a lady--lived
only five minutes' walk from Rawdon. She had a husband, but he
was in diplomatic service or something like that, which kept him
occupied in the sufficiently-far distance. Yes, far enough. And,
as a husband, he was a complete diplomat. A balance of power. If
he was entitled to occupy the wide field of the world, she, the
other and contrasting power, might concentrate and consolidate
her position at home. She was a charming woman, too, and even a beautiful woman. She
had two charming children, long-legged, stalky,
clove-pink-half-opened sort of children. But really charming. And
she was a woman with a certain mystery. She never talked. She
never said anything about herself. Perhaps she suffered; perhaps
she was frightfully happy, and made that her cause for
silence. Perhaps she was wise enough even to be beautifully
silent about her happiness. Certainly she never mentioned her
sufferings, or even her trials: and certainly she must have a
fair handful of the latter, for Alec Drummond sometimes fled home
in the teeth of a gale of debts. He simply got through his own
money and through hers, and, third and fatal stride, through
other people's as well. Then something had to be done about it.
And Janet, dear soul, had to put her hat on and take journeys.
But she never said anything of it. At least, she did just hint
that Alec didn't quite make enough money to meet expenses.
But after all, we don't go about with our eyes shut, and Alec
Drummond, whatever else he did, didn't hide his prowess under a
bushel. Rawdon and he were quite friendly, but really! None of them
ever talked. Drummond didn't talk, he just went off and behaved
in his own way. And though Rawdon would chat away till the small
hours, he never "talked". Not to his nearest male friend
did he ever mention Janet save as a very pleasant woman and his
neighbour: he admitted he adored her children. They often came to
see him. And one felt about Rawdon, he was making a mystery of
something. And that was rather irritating. He went every day to
see Janet, and of course we saw him going: going or coming. How
can one help but see? But he always went in the morning, at about
eleven, and did not stay for lunch: or he went in the afternoon,
and came home to dinner. Apparently he was never there in the
evening. Poor Janet, she lived like a widow. Very well, if Rawdon wanted to make it so blatantly obvious
that it was only platonic, purely platonic, why wasn't he
natural? Why didn't he say simply: "I'm very fond of Janet
Drummond, she is my very dear friend?" Why did he sort of curl up
at the very mention of her name, and curdle into silence: or else
say rather forcedly: "Yes, she is a charming woman. I see a good
deal of her, but chiefly for the children's sake. I'm devoted to
the children!" Then he would look at one in such a curious way,
as if he were hiding something. And after all, what was there to
hide? If he was the woman's friend, why not? It could be a
charming friendship. And if he were her lover, why, heaven bless
me, he ought to have been proud of it, and showed just a glint,
just an honest man's glint. But no, never a glint of pride or pleasure in the relation
either way. Instead of that, this rather theatrical reserve.
Janet, it is true, was just as reserved. If she could, she
avoided mentioning his name. Yet one knew, sure as houses, she
felt something. One suspected her of being more in love with
Rawdon than ever she had been with Alec. And one felt that there
was a hush put upon it all. She had had a hush put upon her. By
whom? By both the men? Or by Rawdon only? Or by Drummond? Was it
for her husband's sake? Impossible! For her children's? But why!
Her children were devoted to Rawdon. It had now become the custom for them to go to him three times
a week, for music. I don't mean he taught them the piano. Rawdon
was a very refined musical amateur. He had them sing, in their
delicate girlish voices, delicate little songs, and really he
succeeded wonderfully with them; he made them so true, which
children rarely are, musically, and so pure and effortless, like
little flamelets of sound. It really was rather beautiful, and
sweet of him. And he taught them music, the delicacy of
the feel of it. They had a regular teacher for the practice. Even the little girls, in their young little ways, were in
love with Rawdon! So if their mother were in love too, in her
ripened womanhood, why not? Poor Janet! She was so still, and so elusive: the hush upon
her! She was rather like a half-opened rose that somebody had
tied a string round, so that it couldn't open any more. But why?
Why? In her there was a real touch of mystery. One could never
ask her, because one knew her heart was too keenly
involved: or her pride. Whereas there was, really, no mystery about Rawdon, refined
and handsome and subtle as he was. He had no mystery: at
least, to a man. What he wrapped himself up in was a
certain amount of mystification. Who wouldn't be irritated to hear a fellow saying, when for
months and months he has been paying a daily visit to a lonely
and very attractive woman--nay, lately even a twice-daily visit,
even if always before sundown--to hear him say, pursing his lips
after a sip of his own very moderate port: "I've taken a vow that
no woman shall sleep under my roof again!" I almost snapped out: "Oh, what the hell! And what about your
Janet?" But I remembered in time, it was not my affair,
and if he wanted to have his mystifications, let him have
them. If he meant he wouldn't have his wife sleep under his roof
again, that one could understand. They were really very witty
with one another, he and she, but fatally and damnably
married. Yet neither wanted a divorce. And neither put the slightest
claim to any control over the other's behaviour. He said: "Women
live on the moon, men on the earth." And she said: "I don't mind
in the least if he loves Janet Drummond, poor thing. It would be
a change for him, from loving himself. And a change for her, if
somebody loved her--" Poor Janet! But he wouldn't have her sleep under his roof, no,
not for any money. And apparently he never slept under hers--if
she could be said to have one. So what the deuce? Of course, if they were friends, just friends, all right! But
then in that case, why start talking about not having a woman
sleep under your roof? Pure mystification! The cat never came out of the bag. But one evening I
distinctly heard it mewing inside its sack, and I even believe I
saw a claw through the canvas. It was in November--everything much as usual--myself pricking
my ears to hear if the rain had stopped, and I could go home,
because I was just a little bored about "cornemuse" music. I had
been having dinner with Rawdon, and listening to him ever since
on his favourite topic: not, of course, women, and why they
shouldn't sleep under his roof, but fourteenth-century melody and
windbag accompaniment. It was not late--not yet ten o'clock--but I was restless, and
wanted to go home. There was no longer any sound of rain. And
Rawdon was perhaps going to make a pause in his monologue. Suddenly there was a tap at the door, and Rawdon's man,
Hawken, edged in. Rawdon, who had been a major in some fantastic
capacity during the war, had brought Hawken back with him. This
fresh-faced man of about thirty-five appeared in the doorway with
an intensely blank and bewildered look on his face. He was really
an extraordinarily good actor. "A lady, sir!" he said, with a look of utter blankness. "A what?" snapped Rawdon. "A lady!"--then with a most discreet drop in his voice: "Mrs.
Drummond, sir!" He looked modestly down at his feet. Rawdon went deathly white, and his lips quivered. "Mrs. Drummond! Where?" Hawken lifted his eyes to his master in a fleeting glance. "I showed her into the dining-room, there being no fire in the
drawing-room." Rawdon got to his feet and took two or three agitated strides.
He could not make up his mind. At last he said, his lips working
with agitation: "Bring her in here." Then he turned with a theatrical gesture to me. "What this is all about, I don't know," he said. "Let me clear out," said I, making for the door. He caught me by the arm. "No, for God's sake! For God's sake, stop and see me
through!" He gripped my arm till it really hurt, and his eyes were quite
wild. I did not know my Olympic Rawdon. Hastily I backed away to the side of the fire--we were in
Rawdon's room, where the books and piano were--and Mrs. Drummond
appeared in the doorway. She was much paler than usual, being a
rather warm-coloured woman, and she glanced at me with big
reproachful eyes, as much as to say: You intruder! You
interloper! For my part, I could do nothing but stare. She wore a
black wrap, which I knew quite well, over her black
dinner-dress. "Rawdon!" she said, turning to him and blotting out my
existence from her consciousness. Hawken softly closed the door,
and I could feel him standing on the threshold outside,
listening keen as a hawk. "Sit down, Janet," said Rawdon, with a grimace of a sour
smile, which he could not get rid of once he had started it, so
that his face looked very odd indeed, like a mask which he was
unable either to fit on or take off. He had several conflicting
expressions all at once, and they had all stuck. She let her wrap slip back on her shoulders, and knitted her
white fingers against her skirt, pressing down her arms, and
gazing at him with a terrible gaze. I began to creep to the
door. Rawdon started after me. "No, don't go! Don't go! I specially want you not to go," he
said in extreme agitation. I looked at her. She was looking at him with a heavy, sombre
kind of stare. Me she absolutely ignored. Not for a second could
she forgive me for existing on the earth. I slunk back to my post
behind the leather armchair, as if hiding. "Do sit down, Janet," he said to her again. "And have a smoke.
What will you drink?" "Nothanks!" she said, as if it were one word slurred out.
"Nothanks." And she proceeded again to fix him with that heavy, portentous
stare. He offered her a cigarette, his hand trembling as he held out
the silver box. "Nothanks!" she slurred out again, not even looking at the
box, but keeping him fixed with that dark and heavy stare. He turned away, making a great delay lighting a cigarette,
with his back to her, to get out of the stream of that stare. He
carefully went for an ash-tray, and put it carefully within
reach--all the time trying not to be swept away on that stare.
And she stood with her fingers locked, her straight, plump,
handsome arms pressed downwards against her skirt, and she gazed
at him. He leaned his elbow on the mantelpiece abstractedly for a
moment--then he started suddenly, and rang the bell. She turned
her eyes from him for a moment, to watch his middle finger
pressing the bell-button. Then there was a tension of waiting, an
interruption in the previous tension. We waited. Nobody came.
Rawdon rang again. "That's very curious!" he murmured to himself. Hawken was
usually so prompt. Hawken, not being a woman, slept under the
roof, so there was no excuse for his not answering the bell. The
tension in the room had now changed quality, owing to this new
suspense. Poor Janet's sombre stare became gradually loosened, so
to speak. Attention was divided. Where was Hawken? Rawdon rang
the bell a third time, a long peal. And now Janet was no longer
the centre of suspense. Where was Hawken? The question loomed
large over every other. "I'll just look in the kitchen," said I, making for the
door. "No, no. I'll go," said Rawdon. But I was in the passage--and Rawdon was on my heels. The
kitchen was very tidy and cheerful, but empty; only a bottle of
beer and two glasses stood on the table. To Rawdon the kitchen
was as strange a world as to me--he never entered the servants'
quarters. But to me it was curious that the bottle of beer was
empty, and both the glasses had been used. I knew Rawdon wouldn't
notice. "That's very curious!" said Rawdon: meaning the absence of his
man. At that moment we heard a step on the servants' stairs, and
Rawdon opened the door to reveal Hawken descending with an armful
of sheets and things. "What are you doing?" "Why!--" and a pause. "I was airing the clean laundry,
like--not to waste the fire last thing." Hawken descended into the kitchen with a very flushed face and
very bright eyes and rather ruffled hair, and proceeded to spread
the linen on chairs before the fire. "I hope I've not done wrong, sir," he said in his most winning
manner. "Was you ringing?" "Three times! Leave that linen and bring a bottle of the
fizz." "I'm sorry, sir. You can't hear the bell from the front,
sir." It was perfectly true. The house was small, but it had been
built for a very nervous author, and the servants' quarters were
shut off, padded from the rest of the house. Rawdon said no more about the sheets and things, but he looked
more peaked than ever. We went back to the music-room. Janet had gone to the hearth,
and stood with her hand on the mantel. She looked round at us,
baffled. "We're having a bottle of fizz," said Rawdon. "Do let me take
your wrap." "And where was Hawken?" she asked satirically. "Oh, busy somewhere upstairs." "He's a busy young man, that!" she said sardonically. And she
sat uncomfortably on the edge of the chair where I had been
sitting. When Hawken came with the tray, she said: "I'm not going to drink." Rawdon appealed to me, so I took a glass. She looked
inquiringly at the flushed and bright-eyed Hawken, as if she
understood something. The manservant left the room. We drank our wine, and the
awkwardness returned. "Rawdon!" she said suddenly, as if she were firing a revolver
at him. "Alec came home to-night in a bigger mess than ever, and
wanted to make love to me to get it off his mind. I can't stand
it any more. I'm in love with you, and I simply can't stand Alec
getting too near to me. He's dangerous when he's crossed--and
when he's worked up. So I just came here. I didn't see what else
I could do." She left off as suddenly as a machine-gun leaves off firing.
We were just dazed. "You are quite right," Rawdon began, in a vague and neutral
tone. . . . "I am, am I not?" she said eagerly. "I'll tell you what I'll do," he said. "I'll go round to the
hotel to-night, and you can stay here." "Under the kindly protection of Hawken, you mean!" she said,
with quiet sarcasm. "Why!--I could send Mrs. Betts, I suppose," he said. Mrs. Betts was his housekeeper. "You couldn't stay and protect me yourself?" she said
quietly. "I! I! Why, I've made a vow--haven't I, Joe?"--he turned to
me--"not to have any woman sleep under my roof again."--He got
the mixed sour smile on his face. She looked up at the ceiling for a moment, then lapsed into
silence. Then she said: "Sort of monastery, so to speak!" And she rose and reached for her wrap, adding: "I'd better go, then." "Joe will see you home," he said. She faced round on me. "Do you mind not seeing me home, Mr. Bradley?" she
said, gazing at me. "Not if you don't want me," said I. "Hawken will drive you," said Rawdon. "Oh, no, he won't!" she said. "I'll walk. Good-night." "I'll get my hat," stammered Rawdon, in an agony. "Wait! Wait!
The gate will be locked." "It was open when I came," she said. He rang for Hawken to unlock the iron doors at the end of the
short drive, whilst he himself huddled into a greatcoat and
scarf, fumbling for a flashlight. "You won't go till I come back, will you?" he pleaded to me.
"I'd be awfully glad if you'd stay the night. The sheets
will be aired." I had to promise--and he set off with an umbrella, in the
rain, at the same time asking Hawken to take a flashlight and go
in front. So that was how they went, in single file along the
path over the fields to Mrs. Drummond's house, Hawken in front,
with flashlight and umbrella, curving round to light up in front
of Mrs. Drummond, who, with umbrella only, walked isolated
between two lights, Rawdon shining his flashlight on her from the
rear from under his umbrella. I turned indoors. So that was over! At least, for the moment! I thought I would go upstairs and see how damp the bed in the
guest-chamber was before I actually stayed the night with Rawdon.
He never had guests--preferred to go away himself. The guest-chamber was a good room across a passage and round a
corner from Rawdon's room--its door just opposite the padded
service-door. This latter service-door stood open, and a light
shone through. I went into the spare bedroom, switching on the
light. To my surprise, the bed looked as if it had just been
left--the sheets tumbled, the pillows pressed. I put in my hands
under the bedclothes, and it was warm. Very curious! As I stood looking round in mild wonder, I heard a voice call
softly: "Joe!" "Yes!" said I instinctively, and, though startled, strode at
once out of the room and through the servants' door, towards the
voice. Light shone from the open doorway of one of the servants'
rooms. There was a muffled little shriek, and I was standing looking
into what was probably Hawken's bedroom, and seeing a soft and
pretty white leg and a pretty feminine posterior very thinly
dimmed in a rather short night-dress, just in the act of climbing
into a narrow little bed, and, then arrested, the owner of the
pretty posterior burying her face in the bed-clothes, to be
invisible, like the ostrich in the sand. I discreetly withdrew, went downstairs and poured myself a
glass of wine. And very shortly Rawdon returned looking like
Hamlet in the last act. He said nothing, neither did I. We sat and merely smoked. Only
as he was seeing me upstairs to bed, in the now immaculate
bedroom, he said pathetically: "Why aren't women content to be what a man wants them to
be?" "Why aren't they!" said I wearily. "I thought I had made everything clear," he said. "You start at the wrong end," said I. And as I said it, the picture came into my mind of the pretty
feminine butt-end in Hawken's bedroom. Yes, Hawken made better
starts, wherever he ended. When he brought me my cup of tea in the morning, he was very
soft and cat-like. I asked him what sort of day it was, and he
asked me if I'd had a good night, and was I comfortable. "Very comfortable!" said I. "But I turned you out, I'm
afraid." "Me, sir?" He turned on me a face of utter bewilderment. But I looked him in the eye. "Is your name Joe?" I asked him. "You're right, sir." "So is mine," said I. "However, I didn't see her face, so it's
all right. I suppose you were a bit tight, in that little
bed!" "Well, sir!" and he flashed me a smile of amazing impudence,
and lowered his tone to utter confidence. "This is the best bed
in the house, this is." And he touched it softly. "You've not tried them all, surely?" A look of indignant horror on his face! "No, sir, indeed I haven't." That day, Rawdon left for London, on his way to Tunis, and
Hawken was to follow him. The roof of his house looked just the
same. The Drummonds moved too--went away somewhere, and left a lot
of unsatisfied tradespeople behind.</story>