 <story title="STRIKE-PAY" date="1913">
Strike-money is paid in the Primitive Methodist Chapel. The
crier was round quite early on Wednesday morning to say that
paying would begin at ten o'clock. The Primitive Methodist Chapel is a big barn of a place,
built, designed, and paid for by the colliers themselves. But it
threatened to fall down from its first form, so that a
professional architect had to be hired at last to pull the place
together. It stands in the Square. Forty years ago, when Bryan and
Wentworth opened their pits, they put up the "squares" of miners'
dwellings. They are two great quadrangles of houses, enclosing a
barren stretch of ground, littered with broken pots and rubbish,
which forms a square, a great, sloping, lumpy playground for the
children, a drying-ground for many women's washing. Wednesday is still wash-day with some women. As the men
clustered round the Chapel, they heard the thud-thud-thud of many
pouches, women pounding away at the wash-tub with a wooden
pestle. In the Square the white clothes were waving in the wind
from a maze of clothes-lines, and here and there women were
pegging out, calling to the miners, or to the children who dodged
under the flapping sheets. Ben Townsend, the Union agent, has a bad way of paying. He
takes the men in order of his round, and calls them by name. A
big, oratorical man with a grey beard, he sat at the table in the
Primitive school-room, calling name after name. The room was
crowded with colliers, and a great group pushed up outside. There
was much confusion. Ben dodged from the Scargill Street list to
the Queen Street. For this Queen Street men were not prepared.
They were not to the fore. "Joseph Grooby--Joseph Grooby! Now, Joe, where are you?" "Hold on a bit, Sorry!" cried Joe from outside. "I'm shovin'
up." There was a great noise from the men. "I'm takin' Queen Street. All you Queen Street men should be
ready. Here you are, Joe," said the Union agent loudly. "Five children!" said Joe, counting the money
suspiciously. "That's right, I think," came the mouthing voice. "Fifteen
shillings, is it not?" "A bob a kid," said the collier. "Thomas Sedgwick--How are you, Tom? Missis better?" "Ay, 'er's shapin' nicely. Tha'rt hard at work to-day, Ben."
This was sarcasm on the idleness of a man who had given up the
pit to become a Union agent. "Yes. I rose at four to fetch the money." "Dunna hurt thysen," was the retort, and the men laughed. "No--John Merfin!" But the colliers, tired with waiting, excited by the strike
spirit, began to rag. Merfin was young and dandiacal. He was
choir-master at the Wesleyan Chapel. "Does your collar cut, John?" asked a sarcastic voice out of
the crowd. "Hymn Number Nine. ? 
'Diddle-diddle dumpling, my son John
 Went to bed with his best suit on,'"
 ? came the solemn announcement. Mr. Merfin, his white cuffs down to his knuckles, picked up
his half-sovereign, and walked away loftily. "Sam Coutts!" cried the paymaster. "Now, lad, reckon it up," shouted the voice of the crowd,
delighted. Mr. Coutts was a straight-backed ne'er-do-well. He looked at
his twelve shillings sheepishly. "Another two-bob--he had twins a-Monday night--get thy money,
Sam, tha's earned it--tha's addled it, Sam; dunna go be-out it.
Let him ha' the two bob for 'is twins, mister," came the clamour
from the men around. Sam Coutts stood grinning awkwardly. "You should ha' given us notice, Sam," said the paymaster
suavely. "We can make it all right for you next week--" "Nay, nay, nay," shouted a voice. "Pay on delivery--the goods
is there right enough." "Get thy money, Sam, tha's addled it," became the universal
cry, and the Union agent had to hand over another florin, to
prevent a disturbance. Sam Coutts grinned with satisfaction. "Good shot, Sam," the men exclaimed. "Ephraim Wharmby," shouted the pay-man. A lad came forward. "Gi' him sixpence for what's on t'road," said a sly voice. "Nay, nay," replied Ben Townsend; "pay on delivery." There was a roar of laughter. The miners were in high
spirits. In the town they stood about in gangs, talking and laughing.
Many sat on their heels in the market-place. In and out of the
public-houses they went, and on every bar the half-sovereigns
clicked. "Comin' ter Nottingham wi' us, Ephraim?" said Sam Coutts to
the slender, pale young fellow of about twenty-two. "I'm non walkin' that far of a gleamy day like this." "He has na got the strength," said somebody, and a laugh went
up. "How's that?" asked another pertinent voice. "He's a married man, mind yer," said Chris Smitheringale, "an'
it ta'es a bit o' keepin' up." The youth was teased in this manner for some time. "Come on ter Nottingham wi's; tha'll be safe for a bit," said
Coutts. A gang set off, although it was only eleven o'clock. It was a
nine-mile walk. The road was crowded with colliers travelling on
foot to see the match between Notts and Aston Villa. In Ephraim's
gang were Sam Coutts, with his fine shoulders and his extra
florin, Chris Smitheringale, fat and smiling, and John Wharmby, a
remarkable man, tall, erect as a soldier, black-haired and proud;
he could play any musical instrument, he declared. "I can play owt from a comb up'ards. If there's music to be
got outer a thing, I back I'll get it. No matter what shape or
form of instrument you set before me, it doesn't signify if I
nivir clapped eyes on it before, I's warrant I'll have a tune out
of it in five minutes." He beguiled the first two miles so. It was true, he had caused
a sensation by introducing the mandoline into the townlet,
filling the hearts of his fellow-colliers with pride as he sat on
the platform in evening dress, a fine soldierly man, bowing his
black head, and scratching the mewing mandoline with hands that
had only to grasp the "instrument" to crush it entirely. Chris stood a can round at the "White Bull" at Gilt Brook.
John Wharmby took his turn at Kimberley top. "We wunna drink again," they decided, "till we're at Cinder
Hill. We'll non stop i' Nuttall." They swung along the high-road under the budding trees. In
Nuttall churchyard the crocuses blazed with yellow at the brim of
the balanced, black yews. White and purple crocuses dipt up over
the graves, as if the churchyard were bursting out in tiny
tongues of flame. "Sithee," said Ephraim, who was an ostler down pit, "sithee,
here comes the Colonel. Sithee at his 'osses how they pick their
toes up, the beauties!" The Colonel drove past the men, who took no notice of him. "Hast heard, Sorry," said Sam, "as they're com'n out i'
Germany, by the thousand, an' begun riotin'?" "An' comin' out i' France simbitar," cried Chris. The men all gave a chuckle. "Sorry," shouted John Wharmby, much elated, "we oughtna ter go
back under a twenty per cent rise." "We should get it," said Chris. "An' easy! They can do nowt bi-out us, we'n on'y ter stop out
long enough." "I'm willin'," said Sam, and there was a laugh. The colliers
looked at one another. A thrill went through them as if an
electric current passed. "We'n on'y ter stick out, an' we s'll see who's gaffer." "Us!" cried Sam. "Why, what can they do again' us, if we come
out all over th' world?" "Nowt!" said John Wharmby. "Th' mesters is bobbin' about like
corks on a cassivoy a'ready." There was a large natural
reservoir, like a lake, near Bestwood, and this supplied the
simile. Again there passed through the men that wave of elation,
quickening their pulses. They chuckled in their throats. Beyond
all consciousness was this sense of battle and triumph in the
hearts of the working-men at this juncture. It was suddenly suggested at Nuttall that they should go over
the fields to Bulwell, and into Nottingham that way. They went
single file across the fallow, past the wood, and over the
railway, where now no trains were running. Two fields away was a
troop of pit ponies. Of all colours, but chiefly of red or brown,
they clustered thick in the field, scarcely moving, and the two
lines of trodden earth patches showed where fodder was placed
down the field. "Theer's the pit 'osses," said Sam. "Let's run 'em." "It's like a circus turned out. See them skewbawd 'uns--seven
skewbawd," said Ephraim. The ponies were inert, unused to freedom. Occasionally one
walked round. But there they stood, two thick lines of ruddy
brown and piebald and white, across the trampled field. It was a
beautiful day, mild, pale blue, a "growing day", as the men said,
when there was the silence of swelling sap everywhere. "Let's ha'e a ride," said Ephraim. The younger men went up to the horses. "Come on--co-oop, Taffy--co-oop, Ginger." The horses tossed away. But having got over the excitement of
being above-ground, the animals were feeling dazed and rather
dreary. They missed the warmth and the life of the pit. They
looked as if life were a blank to them. Ephraim and Sam caught a couple of steeds, on whose backs they
went careering round, driving the rest of the sluggish herd from
end to end of the field. The horses were good specimens, on the
whole, and in fine condition. But they were out of their
element. Performing too clever a feat, Ephraim went rolling from his
mount. He was soon up again, chasing his horse. Again he was
thrown. Then the men proceeded on their way. They were drawing near to miserable Bulwell, when Ephraim,
remembering his turn was coming to stand drinks, felt in his
pocket for his beloved half-sovereign, his strike-pay. It was not
there. Through all his pockets he went, his heart sinking like
lead. "Sam," he said, "I believe I'n lost that ha'ef a
sovereign." "Tha's got it somewheer about thee," said Chris. They made him take off his coat and waistcoat. Chris examined
the coat, Sam the waistcoat, whilst Ephraim searched his
trousers. "Well," said Chris, "I'n foraged this coat, an' it's non
theer." "An' I'll back my life as th' on'y bit a metal on this
wa'scoat is the buttons," said Sam. "An' it's non in my breeches," said Ephraim. He took off his
boots and his stockings. The half-sovereign was not there. He had
not another coin in his possession. "Well," said Chris, "we mun go back an' look for it." Back they went, four serious-hearted colliers, and searched
the field, but in vain. "Well," said Chris, "we s'll ha'e ter share wi' thee, that's
a'." "I'm willin'," said John Wharmby. "An' me," said Sam. "Two bob each," said Chris. Ephraim, who was in the depths of despair, shamefully accepted
their six shillings. In Bulwell they called in a small public-house, which had one
long room with a brick floor, scrubbed benches and scrubbed
tables. The central space was open. The place was full of
colliers, who were drinking. There was a great deal of drinking
during the strike, but not a vast amount drunk. Two men were
playing skittles, and the rest were betting. The seconds sat on
either side the skittle-board, holding caps of money, sixpences
and coppers, the wagers of the "backers". Sam, Chris, and John Wharmby immediately put money on the man
who had their favour. In the end Sam declared himself willing to
play against the victor. He was the Bestwood champion. Chris and
John Wharmby backed him heavily, and even Ephraim the Unhappy
ventured sixpence. In the end, Sam had won half a crown, with which he promptly
stood drinks and bread and cheese for his comrades. At half-past
one they set off again. It was a good match between Notts and Villa--no goals at
half-time, two-none for Notts at the finish. The colliers were
hugely delighted, especially as Flint, the forward for Notts, who
was an Underwood man well known to the four comrades, did some
handsome work, putting the two goals through. Ephraim determined to go home as soon as the match was over.
He knew John Wharmby would be playing the piano at the "Punch
Bowl", and Sam, who had a good tenor voice, singing, while Chris
cut in with witticisms, until evening. So he bade them farewell,
as he must get home. They, finding him somewhat of a damper on
their spirits, let him go. He was the sadder for having witnessed an accident near the
football-ground. A navvy, working at some drainage, carting an
iron tip-tub of mud and emptying it, had got with his horse on to
the deep deposit of ooze which was crusted over. The crust had
broken, the man had gone under the horse, and it was some time
before the people had realised he had vanished. When they found
his feet sticking out, and hauled him forth, he was dead, stifled
dead in the mud. The horse was at length hauled out, after having
its neck nearly pulled from the socket. Ephraim went home vaguely impressed with a sense of death, and
loss, and strife. Death was loss greater than his own, the strike
was a battle greater than that he would presently have to
fight. He arrived home at seven o'clock, just when it had fallen
dark. He lived in Queen Street with his young wife, to whom he
had been married two months, and with his mother-in-law, a widow
of sixty-four. Maud was the last child remaining unmarried, the
last of eleven. Ephraim went up the entry. The light was burning in the
kitchen. His mother-in-law was a big, erect woman, with wrinkled,
loose face, and cold blue eyes. His wife was also large, with
very vigorous fair hair, frizzy like unravelled rope. She had a
quiet way of stepping, a certain cat-like stealth, in spite of
her large build. She was five months pregnant. "Might we ask wheer you've been to?" inquired Mrs. Marriott,
very erect, very dangerous. She was only polite when she was very
angry. "I' bin ter th' match." "Oh, indeed!" said the mother-in-law. "And why couldn't we be
told as you thought of jaunting off?" "I didna know mysen," he answered, sticking to his broad
Derbyshire. "I suppose it popped into your mind, an' so you darted off,"
said the mother-in-law dangerously. "I didna. It wor Chris Smitheringale who exed me." "An' did you take much invitin'?" "I didna want ter goo." "But wasn't there enough man beside your jacket to say
no?" He did not answer. Down at the bottom he hated her. But he
was, to use his own words, all messed up with having lost his
strike-pay and with knowing the man was dead. So he was more
helpless before his mother-in-law, whom he feared. His wife
neither looked at him nor spoke, but kept her head bowed. He knew
she was with her mother. "Our Maud's been waitin' for some money, to get a few things,"
said the mother-in-law. In silence, he put five-and-sixpence on the table. "Take that up, Maud," said the mother. Maud did so. "You'll want it for us board, shan't you?" she asked,
furtively, of her mother. "Might I ask if there's nothing you want to buy yourself,
first?" "No, there's nothink I want," answered the daughter. Mrs. Marriott took the silver and counted it. "And do you," said the mother-in-law, towering upon the
shrinking son, but speaking slowly and statelily, "do you think
I'm going to keep you and your wife for five and sixpence a
week?" "It's a' I've got," he answered sulkily. "You've had a good jaunt, my sirs, if it's cost four and
sixpence. You've started your game early, haven't you?" He did not answer. "It's a nice thing! Here's our Maud an' me been sitting since
eleven o'clock this morning! Dinner waiting and cleared away, tea
waiting and washed up; then in he comes crawling with five and
sixpence. Five and sixpence for a man an' wife's board for a
week, if you please!" Still he did not say anything. "You must think something of yourself, Ephraim Wharmby!" said
his mother-in-law. "You must think something of yourself. You
suppose, do you, I'm going to keep you an' your wife,
while you make a holiday, off on the nines to Nottingham, drink
an' women." "I've neither had drink nor women, as you know right well," he
said. "I'm glad we know summat about you. For you're that close,
anybody'd think we was foreigners to you. You're a pretty little
jockey, aren't you? Oh, it's a gala time for you, the strike is.
That's all men strike for, indeed. They enjoy themselves, they do
that. Ripping and racing and drinking, from morn till night, my
sirs!" "Is there on'y tea for me?" he asked, in a temper. "Hark at him! Hark-ye! Should I ask you whose house you think
you're in? Kindly order me about, do. Oh, it makes him big, the
strike does. See him land home after being out on the spree for
hours, and give his orders, my sirs! Oh, strike sets the men up,
it does. Nothing have they to do but guzzle and gallivant to
Nottingham. Their wives'll keep them, oh yes. So long as they get
something to eat at home, what more do they want! What more
should they want, prithee? Nothing! Let the women and
children starve and scrape, but fill the man's belly, and let him
have his fling. My sirs, indeed, I think so! Let tradesmen
go--what do they matter! Let rent go. Let children get what they
can catch. Only the man will see he's all right. But not
here, though!" "Are you goin' ter gi'e me ony bloody tea?" His mother-in-law started up. "If tha dares ter swear at me, I'll lay thee flat." "Are yer--goin' ter--gi'e me--any blasted, rotten,
còssed, blòody tèa?" he bawled, in a fury,
accenting every other word deliberately. "Maud!" said the mother-in-law, cold and stately, "If you gi'e
him any tea after that, you're a trollops." Whereupon she sailed
out to her other daughters. Maud quietly got the tea ready. "Shall y'ave your dinner warmed up?" she asked. "Ay." She attended to him. Not that she was really meek. But--he was
her man, not her mother's.</story>