 <story title="THE CAT OF THE STARS" date="1919">
The fatalities have been three thousand, two hundred and
ninety-one, to date, with more reported in every cable from San
Coloquin, but it is not yet decided whether the ultimate blame is
due to the conductor of Car 22, to Mrs. Simmy Dolson's bland
selfishness, or to the fact that Willis Stodeport patted a
sarsaparilla-colored kitten with milky eyes. It was a hypocritical patting. Willis had been playing
pumpum-pullaway all afternoon, hence was hungry, and desirous of
winning favor with his mother by his nice attitude toward our
dumb friends. Willis didn't actually care for being nice to the
dumb friend. What he wanted was cookies. So slight was his esteem
for the kitten--whose name was Adolphus Josephus Mudface--that
afterward he took it out to the kitchen and tried to see if it
would drown under the tap of the sink. Yet such is the strange and delicate balance of nature, with
the lightest tremor in the dream of a terrestrial baby affecting
the course of suns ten million light-years away, that the patting
of Adolphus Josephus Mudface has started a vicious series of
events that will be felt forever in star beyond mounting star.
The death of exiled Napoleon made a few old men stop to scratch
their heads and dream. The fall of Carthage gave cheap bricks to
builders of dumpy huts. But the false deed of Willis Stodeport
has changed history. Mrs. Simmy Dolson was making an afternoon call upon the mother
of this portentous but tow-headed Willis, who resides upon
Scrimmins Street, in the Middle-Western city of Vernon. The two
matrons had discussed the price of butter, the iniquities of the
fluffy-headed new teacher in Public School 17, and the idiocy of
these new theories about bringing up young ones. Mrs. Dolson was
keeping an ear on the car line, for the Oakdale cars run only
once in eighteen minutes, and if she missed the next one she
would be too late to prepare supper. Just as she heard it coming,
and seized her hat, she saw young Willis edge into the room and
stoop to pat the somnolent Adolphus Josephus Mudface. With a hatpin half inserted Mrs. Dolson crooned, "My, what a
dear boy! Now isn't that sweet!" Willis's mother forgot that she had intended to have words
with her offspring in the matter of the missing knob of the flour
bin. She beamed, and to Willis she gurgled, "Do you like the
kittie, dearie?" "Yes, I love our kittie; can I have a cookie?" young
Machiavelli hastened to get in; and Aldebaran, the crimson star,
throbbed with premonition. "Now isn't that sweet!" Mrs. Dolson repeated--then remembered
her car and galloped away. She had been so delayed by the admiration of daily deeds of
kindness that when she reached the corner the Oakdale car was
just passing. It was crowded with tired business men in a fret to
get home to the outskirts of Vernon, but Mrs. Simmy Dolson was
one of those plump, amiably selfish souls who would keep a whole
city waiting while she bought canary seed. She waved at the car
and made deceptive motions of frantic running. The conductor of the car, which was Number 22, was a
kind-hearted family man, and he rang for a stop halfway down the
block. Despite the growling of the seventy passengers he held the
car till Mrs. Dolson had wheezed aboard, which made them two
minutes late. That was just enough to cause them to miss the
switch at Seven Corners; and they had to wait while three other
cars took the switch before them. By that time Car 22 was three and three-quarters minutes
late. Mr. Andrew Discopolos, the popular proprietor of the Dandy
Barber Shop, was the next step in the tragedy. Mr. Discopolos was
waiting for this same Oakdale car. He had promised his wife to go
home to supper, but in his bacchanalian soul he desired to sneak
down to Barney's for an evening of poker. He waited one minute,
and was tremendously moral and determined to eschew gambling. He
waited for two minutes, and began to see what a martyr he was.
There would never be another Oakdale car. He would have to walk
home. His wife expected too darn much of him, anyway! He waited
for three minutes, and in rose tints and soft gold he remembered
the joys of playing poker at Barney's. Seven seconds before the delayed Oakdale car turned the corner
Mr. Discopolos gave up the struggle, and with outer decorum and
inner excitement he rushed up an alley, headed for Barney's. He
stopped at the Southern Café for a Denver sandwich and
cuppacoffee. He shook for the cigars at the Smoke House, and won
three-for's, which indicated to him how right he had been in not
going home. He reached Barney's at seven-thirty. He did not leave
Barney's till one-thirty in the morning, and when he did leave he
was uncertain of direction, but very vigorous of motion, due to
his having celebrated the winning of four dollars by buying a
quart of rye. Under a dusty and discouraged autumn moon Mr. Discopolos
weaved home. Willis Stodeport and Mrs. Simmy Dolson and the
conductor of Car 22 were asleep now; even the disreputable
Adolphus Josephus Mudface had, after a charming fight behind the
Smiths' garbage can, retired to innocent slumbers on the soft
folds of the floor mop in the corner of the back porch where he
was least likely to be disturbed by mice. Only Mr. Discopolos was
awake, but he was bearing on the torch of evil destiny; and on
one of the planets of the sun that is called Procyon there were
floods and earthquakes. When Mr. Discopolos awoke in the morning his eyes were filmy
and stinging. Before he went to his shop he had three fingers of
pick-me-up, which so exhilarated him that he stood on the corner,
swaying and beaming. Normally he had pride in his technic as a
barber, but now all his more delicate artistry was gone in a
roving desire for adventure. With a professional eye he noted the
haircut of a tough young man loafing in front of the drug store.
It was a high haircut, leaving the neck and the back of the head
bald clear up to the crown. "Be a joke on some fellow to cut his
hair that way!" giggled Mr. Discopolos. It was the first time in a year that he had needed, or taken,
a drink before afternoon. Chuckling Fate sent to him the next
torchbearer, Mr. Palmer McGee. Palmer McGee was one of Vernon's most promising young men. He
lived at the University Club; he had two suits of evening
clothes; and he was assistant to the president of the M. &amp; D.
R. R. He was a technical-school graduate and a Spanish scholar as
well as a business-system expert; and his club-grill manners were
as accurate as his knowledge of traffic routing. Today was his
hour of greatness. He had, as the result of long correspondence,
this morning received a telegram inviting him to come to New York
to see the president and directors of the Citrus and Southern
Steamship Company about the position of Buenos Aires manager for
the company. He had packed in ten minutes. But he had an hour
before his train, with the station only twenty minutes away by
trolley. Instead of taking a taxi he exuberantly walked from the
club to Selden Street to catch a car. One door from the corner he beheld the barber shop of Mr.
Discopolos, which reminded him that he needed a haircut. He might
not have time to get one in New York before he saw the steamship
directors. The shop was bright, and Mr. Discopolos, by the window
in a white jacket, was clean and jolly. Palmer McGee popped into the shop and caroled "Haircut;
medium." Magnetized by Mr. Discopolos' long light fingers he
closed his eyes and dreamed of his future. About the middle of the haircut the morning's morning of Mr.
Discopolos rose up and jostled him and dimmed his eyes, with the
result that he cut too deep a swath of hair across the back of
Mr. McGee's sleek head. Mr. Discopolos sighed, and peeped at the
victim to see if he was aware of the damage. But Mr. McGee was
sitting with eyes tight, lips apart, already a lord of ocean
traffic, giving orders to Singhalese planters and to traders in
the silent northern pines. Mr. Discopolos remembered the high-shaved neck of the corner
loafer, and imitated that model. He ruthlessly concealed the
too-deep slash by almost denuding the back of Mr. McGee's head.
That erstwhile polite neck stood out as bare as an ostrich. Being an artist, Mr. Discopolos had to keep the symmetry--the
rhythm--correct, so he balanced the back by also removing too
much hair from in front--from above Mr. McGee's Yalensian
ears. When the experiment was complete, Mr. McGee looked like a bald
young man with a small wig riding atop his head. He looked like a
wren's nest on top of a clothes pole. He looked painstakingly and
scientifically skinned. At least it was thus that he saw himself
in the barber's mirror when he opened his eyes. He called on a number of deities; he said he wanted to
assassinate Mr. Discopolos. But he hadn't time for this work of
mercy. He had to catch his train. He took his maltreated head
into a taxi, feeling shamefully that the taxi driver was
snickering at his haircut. Left behind, untipped and much berated, Mr. Discopolos
grumbled, "I did take off a little too much; but rats, he'll be
all right in couple of weeks. What's couple of weeks? Believe
I'll go get a drink." Thus, as ignorant as they of taking any part in a progressive
tragedy, Mr. Discopolos joined Willis Stodeport, Adolphus
Josephus, Mrs. Dolson and the too-generous conductor of Car 22,
in the darkness of unimportance, while Palmer McGee was on the
Pullman--and extremely wretched. He fancied that everyone from the porter to the silken girl
across the aisle was snickering at his eccentric coiffure. To Mr.
McGee, queerness of collar or hair or slang was more wicked than
murder. He had rigidly trained himself to standards in
everything. There were, for example, only three brands of whisky
on which a gentleman could decently get edged. He was the most
dependable young man in the general offices of the M. &amp; D. R.
R., and before that he had been so correctly pleasant to the
right fellows and so correctly aloof with the wrong fellows, so
agreeably pipe-smoking and laudatory of athletics, that he had
made both junior and senior societies at Yale. He had had no
experience to teach him to bear up under this utter disgrace of a
variation from the standard of haircutting. As the train relentlessly bore him on toward New York he now
and then accumulated courage to believe that his haircut couldn't
be so bad as he knew it was. He would stroll with noble
casualness into the smoking compartment, and the instant it was
free of other passengers he would dart at the mirror. Each time
he made the same quaking discovery that he was even more
ridiculous than he remembered. By day, trying to read or scan the scenery or impress fellow
smokers, by night, folded in his swaying berth--he could think of
nothing else. He read only one paragraph of the weighty book
which all persons carry on all Pullmans in the hope that they
will be forced to finish it because they have nothing else to
read. He grew more and more sensitive. Every time he heard a
laugh he was sure that it was directed at him; and because he so
uncomfortably looked away from the absent-minded gaze of fellow
passengers he made them gaze the harder. The beautiful self-confidence which had always concealed Mr.
McGee's slight defects from himself and had helped him to rise to
the position of assistant to the railroad president was torn
away, and he began to doubt himself, began to feel that others
must doubt him. When he finally crept up the cement incline in
the New York station, after a writhing glance at the redcaps, to
see if New Yorkers would notice his ludicrousness as much as
people had on the way through, he wondered if he could not return
to Vernon and wire the steamship directors that he was ill. He was not exaggerating about the importance of this trip to
New York. The directors of the Citrus and Southern Line really
were waiting for him. They needed him. It is a curious fact of psychological economics that there are
almost as many large employers waiting and praying for the chance
to pay tens of thousands a year to dependable young men as there
are dependable young men waiting and praying for the chance to
earn a thousand a year. The president of the Citrus and Southern,
the pouchy blob-nosed dean of South American and West Indian
shipping, had been in the hospital for six months, after
peritonitis. From his bed he had vaguely directed the policies of
the company. Things had run well enough, with the old clerks
working mechanically. But a crisis had come. The company had
either to expand or break. The Green Feather Line, weary of litigation, wanted to sell
all its ships to the Citrus and Southern, which if it bought them
might double its business. If some other company bought them and
vigorously increased competition, the Citrus and Southern might
be ruined. The Citrus and Southern held a five months' option. By the end
of that period they hoped to have found the man who could connect
the sick president's brain with the general office's body--and
they believed that in Palmer McGee they had found that man. McGee did not know how carefully he had been watched. He had
never met one of the directors or officers of the Citrus and
Southern, had never seen one of them, and their correspondence
had been polite but not exciting. But the two suave gentlemen who
had been poking about Vernon lately had been commercial secret
agents of the Titanic Rating and Credit Company; and they knew
all about McGee, from the number of drinks he had at the club to
the amount of his bank account and his manner of listening to the
stories of the chief shippers of the M. &amp; D. R. R. The Citrus and Southern chiefs were certain that they had
found their man. McGee was to be sent to Buenos Aires, but only
on test. If he was as good as they thought, he would in three
months be brought back as vice president at a salary nearly four
times as large as the one he had received in Vernon. In this
crisis they had the generosity of despair. They were to meet McGee in the president's suite at the
hospital at four-thirty; and the train got in at
three-fifteen. McGee went to a hotel, and sat still, scared, looking at
himself in a dressing-table mirror. He became momently more
rustic, more tough, more skinned and awkward in his own eyes. He called up the hospital, got the president. "Th-this is
McGee. I--I'm coming right over," he quavered. "Huh! That fellow sounds kind of lightwaisted. Not much
self-confidence," complained the president to his old friend, the
chairman of the board of directors. "Here, prop me up, Billy. We
must give him a thorough look-over. Can't take any chances." The note of doubt was a germ which instantly infected the
chairman. "That's too bad. The Rating and Credit people reported
he was a find. But still--of course--" When Palmer McGee faced the president, the first vice
president and a committee of four directors, three of the six had
already turned from welcoming eagerness to stilly doubt. He felt
that doubt. But he interpreted it thus: "They think I'm a complete boob to have a haircut like this.
Think I don't know any better. And I can't explain. Mustn't admit
that I know there's anything wrong--mustn't admit I was an easy
mark and let a drunken barber carve me up." He was so busy with these corroding reflections that he did
not quite catch the sharp question which the president fired at
him: "McGee, what's your opinion of the future of the competition
between Australian wheat and the Argentine crop?" "I--I--I didn't quite understand you, sir," lamented poor
McGee, victim of the cat of the trembling stars. The president thought to himself: "If he can't get as dead
simple a question as that--Wonder if the first vice president
wouldn't do, after all? No. Too old-fogyish." While he meditated he was repeating the query without much
interest; and without interest he heard McGee's thorough but
shaky answer. And McGee forgot to put in his usual information about the
future of New Zealand grain. Two hours later the president and directors decided that McGee
"wouldn't quite do"; which meant that he wouldn't do at all; and
they wearily began to talk of other candidates for the position.
None of the others were satisfactory. Four months later they decided that they would have to go
slow; wait for the president to recover. They could find no one
adaptable enough to coordinate the president and the working
management. So they gave up their option on the steamers of the
Green Feather Line. The best of the jest was that Palmer McGee had looked rather
well in his flippant haircut. Because the Chapel Street barber
had started cutting his hair a certain length when he had been a
Freshman in Yale he had kept up that mode, which was respectable
but dull. But the semi-shave had brought out his energetic neck
muscles. Never had he looked so taut and trim. Though dozens of
people between the Vernon barber shop and the New York hospital
had noticed his uneasiness none of them had considered his
coiffure queer--they had merely wondered whether he was an
embezzler or a forger. McGee returned to Vernon broken, and General Coreos y Dulce,
ex-president of the Central American republic of San Coloquin,
entered the train of victims of Willis Stodeport, of Scrimmins
Street. The general had colonized Ynez Island, lying off the coast of
San Coloquin. Fields of cane and coffee he had created, and he
was happily expropriating ten thousand melodious natives. The
general was a merry and easy ruler. When he had accepted the
presidency of San Coloquin, after certain military
misunderstandings, he hadn't even executed anybody--except a
cousin or two, merely for politeness' sake. His colony on Ynez Island was served by the steamers of the
Green Feather Line. The business was not yet sufficient to
warrant a regular stop, but General Dulce had a private agreement
with the manager of the Green Feather, as well as one with the
sick president of the Citrus and Southern, which later agreement
was to take effect if the company took over the Green Feather
boats. But when the Citrus and Southern gave up their option the
Green Feather fleet was bought, not by another Atlantic line but
by a Seattle firm, for their Alaskan and Siberian trade.
Consequently the general had to depend for service on a tin-can
line which ran out of San Coloquin. The owner of that line hated the general; had hated him when
the general had been president, and had added to that hate with
every meditative gin rickey he had sipped in the long years
since. The general's fruit spoiled aboard the creaky old
steamers; it was always too late to catch the boat north. His
coffee was drenched, and his sugar short weight. When the general
desperately bought a freighter of his own it was mysteriously
burned. Poverty and failure closed in on Ynez Island. The colonists
hadn't enough to eat. When the influenza reached the island the
weakened natives died in hordes. Some of them fled to the
mainland, carrying the disease. The number of fatalities that
would probably have been prevented by comfort and proper food and
a supply of drugs has been estimated by Dr. Prof. Sir Henry
Henson Sturgis at three thousand two hundred and ninety. One of
the last to die was the broken-hearted general. Before he died the wheel of Fate had turned past him and
stopped at a certain European monarch. The general had in all his
colonizing and his financial schemes been merely the secret agent
of that monarch. The king was uncomfortable on his throne. It
rocked and squeaked and threatened to give way at the seat. It
was kept together only by many fees for repairs--jolly gifts to
the duke who hypocritically led the opposition party, to a
foreign agent, to certain clerics and editors and professors,
even to the ostensible leader of the left wing of the radical
party. Five years before Willis Stodeport had patted Adolphus
Josephus Mudface, the king had realized that he was in danger of
using up all his private estate. He had speculated. He had called
General Coreos y Dulce from Central America; and it was royalty's
own money that had developed the colonization of Ynez Island. It had been impossible for the king to keep in touch with the
details of the colonization. Had he learned of the loss of the
Green Feather service he might have raised funds for the purchase
of the whole fleet when the Citrus and Southern gave up the
option. But the proud, dogged general, with his sky-climbing
mustachios and his belief that one Castilian was cleverer than
four Andalusians or eight gringos, had been certain that he could
pull through without help from the royal master. It was not till the approach of death that he sent the coded
cablegram which informed the king that he could expect no income
from Ynez Island. Then the monarch knew that he could not keep
his promises to certain peers and ministers; that his wordiest
supporters would join the republican movement; that the
gold-crusted but shaky-legged throne would at any moment be
kicked out from beneath him by rude persons in mechanics'
boots. So it came to pass that at a certain hour the farthest stars
quivered with mystic forces from the far-off fleck of dust called
Earth, forces which would, just for a sketchy beginning, change
all the boundaries and customs of Southern Europe. The king had
at that hour desperately called in the two ministers and the one
foreign emissary whom he trusted, and with that famous weak smile
had murmured: "Gentlemen, it is the end. Shall I flee or--or--You
remember they didn't give my cousin the funeral even of a private
gentleman." At that hour, in a hovel in the Jamaica negro quarter of the
capital of San Coloquin, General Coreos y Dulce, friend of
composers and masters of science, was dying of nothing at all but
sick hope and coldly creeping fear, and a belief that he had
pneumonia. A thousand and more miles away the president of the Citrus and
Southern Steamship Company was writing his resignation. His old
friend, the chairman of the board of directors, again begged:
"But this means the ruin of the company, Ben. We can't go on
without you." "I know, Billy," the president sighed, "but I'm all in. If we
could have found someone to carry out my ideas I could have
pulled through--and the company could have. Shame we were fooled
about that McGee fellow. If we hadn't wasted so much time looking
him over we might have had time to find the right man, and he'd
have taken enough worry off my shoulders so that--Well, I'll
about pass out in three months, I reckon, old man. Let's have one
more go at pinochle. I have a hunch I'm going to get double
pinochle." About half an hour after that, and half a continent away,
Palmer McGee left the home of the president of the M. &amp; D. R.
R. He walked as one dreaming. The railroad president had said: "I
don't know what the trouble is, my boy, but you haven't been
worth a hang for quite a while now. And you're drinking too much.
Better go off some place and get hold of yourself." McGee crawled to the nearest telegraph office that was open,
and sent a wire to the Buffalo &amp; Bangor, accepting their
offer in the purchasing department. The salary was not less than
the one he had been receiving, but there was little future.
Afterward he had a cocktail, the fourth that evening. It cannot be authoritatively determined whether it was that
evening or the one before that a barber named Discopolos first
actually struck his wife, and she observed, "All right, I'll
leave you." The neighbors say that though this was the first time
he had mauled her, things had been going badly with them for many
months. One of them asserts that the trouble started on an
evening when Discopolos had promised to come home to supper but
had not shown up till one-thirty in the morning. It seems that,
though he had forgotten it, this had been her birthday, and she,
poor mouse, had prepared a feast for them. But it is certainly known that at the same hour on the same
evening there was much peace and much study of the newspaper
comics in the house of the Stodeports on Scrimmins Street. Willis stooped to pull the tail of Adolphus Josephus Mudface,
now a half-grown cat. Mrs. Stodeport complained: "Now, Willie, do
let that cat alone! He might scratch you, and you'll get fleas
and things. No telling what-all might happen if you go patting
and fooling with--" Mr. Stodeport yawningly interrupted: "Oh, let the child alone!
Way you go on, might think something dreadful would happen, just
because he strokes a cat. I suppose probably he might get one of
these germs, and spread it, and before he got through with it,
maybe be the cause of two-three people taking sick! Ha, ha, ha!
Or maybe he might make somebody rob a bank or something just
awful! Ha, ha, ha! You better hold in your imagination, Mamma!
We-ell--" Mr. Stodeport yawned, and put the cat out, and yawned, and
wound the clock, and yawned, and went up to bed, still chuckling
over his fancy about Willis having a mysterious effect on persons
five or six blocks away. At exactly that moment in a medieval castle about five
thousand miles from Willis Stodeport, the king of an ancient
nation sighed to the Right Honorable the Earl of Arden, K. C. B.,
special and secret emissary of the British throne: "Yes, it is
the twilight of the gods. I take some little pride in saying that
even in my downfall I can see clearly the mysteries of Fate. I
know definitely that my misfortune is a link in a chain of events
that impressively started with--" "--with the loss of thousands of lives and millions of pounds,
in San Coloquin," mused Lord Arden. "No! No! No! Nothing so earthy and petty. I have long been a
student of astrology. My astrologer and I have determined that
this evil chance of myself and my poor people is but the last act
in a cosmic tragedy that started with an esoteric change in the
magnetism of Azimech, the cold and virgin star. At least it is
comforting to know that my sorrows originated in nothing trivial,
but have been willed by the brooding stars in the farthest
abysses of eternal night, and that--" "Um. Oh, yes. Yes, I see," said the Earl of Arden. </story>