 <story title="THE OLD ADAM" date="1934">
The maid who opened the door was just developing into a
handsome womanhood. Therefore she seemed to have the insolent
pride of one newly come to an inheritance. She would be a
splendid woman to look at, having just enough of Jewish blood to
enrich her comeliness into beauty. At nineteen her fine grey eyes
looked challenge, and her warm complexion, her black hair looped
up slack, enforced the sensuous folding of her mouth. She wore no cap nor apron, but a well-looking sleeved overall
such as even very ladies don. The man she opened to was tall and thin, but graceful in his
energy. He wore white flannels, carried a tennis-racket. With a
light bow to the maid he stepped beside her on the threshold. He
was one of those who attract by their movement, whose movement is
watched unconsciously, as we watch the flight of a sea-bird
waving its wing leisurely. Instead of entering the house, the
young man stood beside the maid-servant and looked back into the
blackish evening. When in repose, he had the diffident, ironic
bearing so remarkable in the educated youth of to-day, the very
reverse of that traditional aggressiveness of youth. "It is going to thunder, Kate," he said. "Yes, I think it is," she replied, on an even footing. The young man stood a moment looking at the trees across the
road, and on the oppressive twilight. "Look," he said, "there's not a trace of colour in the
atmosphere, though it's sunset; all a dark, lustrous grey; and
those oaks kindle green like a low fire--see!" "Yes," said Kate, rather awkwardly. "A troublesome sort of evening; must be, because it's your
last with us." "Yes," said the girl, flushing and hardening. There was another pause; then: "Sorry you're going?" he asked, with a faint tang of
irony. "In some ways," she replied, rather haughtily. He laughed, as if he understood what was not said, then, with
an "Ah well!" he passed along the hall. The maid stood for a few moments clenching her young fists,
clenching her very breast in revolt. Then she closed the
door. Edward Severn went into the dining-room. It was eight o'clock,
very dark for a June evening; on the dusk-blue walls only the
gilt frames of the pictures glinted pale. The clock occupied the
room with its delicate ticking. The door opened into a tiny conservatory that was lined with a
grapevine. Severn could hear, from the garden beyond, the high
prattling of a child. He went to the glass door. Running down the grass by the flower-border was a little girl
of three, dressed in white. She was very bonny, very quick and
intent in her movements; she reminded him of a fieldmouse which
plays alone in the corn, for sheer joy. Severn lounged in the
doorway, watching her. Suddenly she perceived him. She started,
flashed into greeting, gave a little gay jump, and stood quite
still again, as if pleading. "Mr. Severn," she cried, in wonderfully coaxing tones: "Come
and see this." "What?" he asked. "Com' and see it," she pleaded. He laughed, knowing she only wanted to coax him into the
garden; and he went. "Look," she said, spreading out her plump little arm. "What?" he asked. The baby was not going to admit that she had tricked him
thither for her amusement. "All gone up to buds," she said, pointing to the closed
marigolds. Then "See!" she shrieked, flinging herself at his
legs, grasping the flannel of his trousers, and tugging at him
wildly. She was a wild little Mænad. She flew shrieking
like a revelling bird down the garden, glancing back to see if he
were coming. He had not the heart to desist, but went swiftly
after her. In the obscure garden, the two white figures darted
through the flowering plants, the baby, with her full silk
skirts, scudding like a ruffled bird, the man, lithe and fleet,
snatching her up and smothering his face in hers. And all the
time her piercing voice reechoed from his low calls of warning
and of triumph as he hunted her. Often she was really frightened
of him; then she clung fast round his neck, and he laughed and
mocked her in a low, stirring voice, whilst she protested. The garden was large for a London suburb. It was shut in by a
high dark embankment, that rose above a row of black poplar
trees. And over the spires of the trees, high up, slid by the
golden-lighted trains, with the soft movement of caterpillars and
a hoarse, subtle noise. Mrs. Thomas stood in the dark doorway watching the night, the
trains, the flash and run of the two white figures. "And now we must go in," she heard Severn say. "No," cried the baby, wild and defiant as a bacchanal. She
clung to him like a wild-cat. "Yes," he said. "Where's your mother?" "Give me a swing," demanded the child. He caught her up. She strangled him hard with her young
arms. "I said, where's your mother?" he persisted, half
smothered. "She's op'tairs," shouted the child. "Give me a swing." "I don't think she is," said Severn. "She is. Give me a swing, a swi-i-ing!" He bent forward, so that she hung from his neck like a great
pendant. Then he swung her, laughing low to himself while she
shrieked with fear. As she slipped he caught her to his
breast. "Mary!" called Mrs. Thomas, in that low, songful tone of a
woman when her heart is roused and happy. "Mary!" she called, long and sweet. "Oh, no!" cried the child quickly. But Severn bore her off. Laughing, he bowed his head and
offered to the mother the baby who clung round his neck. "Come along here," said Mrs. Thomas roguishly, clasping the
baby's waist with her hands. "Oh, no," cried the child, tucking her head into the young
man's neck. "But it's bed-time," said the mother. She laughed as she drew
at the child to pull her loose from Severn. The baby clung
tighter, and laughed, feeling no determination in her mother's
grip. Severn bent his head to loosen the child's hold, bowed, and
swung the heavy baby on his neck. The child clung to him,
bubbling with laughter; the mother drew at her baby, laughing
low, while the man swung gracefully, giving little jerks of
laughter. "Let Mr. Severn undress me," said the child, hugging close to
the young man, who had come to lodge with her parents when she
was scarce a month old. "You're in high favour to-night," said the mother to Severn.
He laughed, and all three stood a moment watching the trains pass
and repass in the sky beyond the garden-end. Then they went
indoors, and Severn undressed the child. She was a beautiful girl, a bacchanal with her wild, dull-gold
hair tossing about like a loose chaplet, her hazel eyes shining
daringly, her small, spaced teeth glistening in little passions
of laughter within her red, small mouth. The young man loved her.
She was such a little bright wave of wilfulness, so abandoned to
her impulses, so white and smooth as she lay at rest, so
startling as she flashed her naked limbs about. But she was
growing too old for a young man to undress. She sat on his knee in her high-waisted night-gown, eating her
piece of bread-and-butter with savage little bites of resentment:
she did not want to go to bed. But Severn made her repeat a Pater
Noster. She lisped over the Latin, and Mrs. Thomas, listening,
flushed with pleasure; although she was a Protestant, and
although she deplored the unbelief of Severn, who had been a
Catholic. The mother took the baby to carry her to bed. Mrs. Thomas was
thirty-four years old, full-bosomed and ripe. She had dark hair
that twined lightly round her low, white brow. She had a clear
complexion, and beautiful brows, and dark-blue eyes. The lower
part of her face was heavy. "Kiss me," said Severn to the child. He raised his face as he sat in the rocking-chair. The mother
stood beside, looking down at him, and holding the laughing rogue
of a baby against her breast. The man's face was uptilted, his
heavy brows set back from the laughing tenderness of his eyes,
which looked dark, because the pupil was dilated. He pursed up
his handsome mouth, his thick close-cut moustache roused. He was a man who gave tenderness, but who did not ask for it.
All his own troubles he kept, laughingly, to himself. But his
eyes were very sad when quiet, and he was too quick to understand
sorrow, not to know it. Mrs. Thomas watched his fine mouth lifted for kissing. She
leaned forward, lowering the baby, and suddenly, by a quick
change in his eyes, she knew he was aware of her heavy woman's
breasts approaching down to him. The wild rogue of a baby bent
her face to his, and then, instead of kissing him, suddenly
licked his cheek with her wet, soft tongue. He started back in
aversion, and his eyes and his teeth flashed with a dangerous
laugh. "No, no," he laughed, in low strangled tones. "No dog-lick, my
dear, oh no!" The baby chuckled with glee, gave one wicked jerk of laughter,
that came out like a bubble escaping. He put up his mouth again, and again his face was horizontal
below the face of the young mother. She looked down on him as if
by a kind of fascination. "Kiss me, then," he said with thick throat. The mother lowered the baby. She felt scarcely sure of her
balance. Again the child, when near to his face, darted out her
tongue to lick him. He swiftly averted his face, laughing in his
throat. Mrs. Thomas turned her face aside; she would see no more. "Come then," she said to the child. "If you won't kiss Mr.
Severn nicely--" The child laughed over the mother's shoulder like a squirrel
crouched there. She was carried to bed. It was still not quite dark; the clouds had opened slightly.
The young man flung himself into an arm-chair, with a volume of
French verse. He read one lyric, then he lay still. "What, all in the dark!" exclaimed Mrs. Thomas, coming in.
"And reading by this light." She rebuked him with timid
affectionateness. Then, glancing at his white-flannelled limbs
sprawled out in the gloom, she went to the door. There she turned
her back to him, looking out. "Don't these flags smell strongly in the evening?" she said at
length. He replied with a few lines of the French he had been
reading. She did not understand. There was a peculiar silence. "A peculiar, brutal, carnal scent, iris," he drawled at
length. "Isn't it?" She laughed shortly, saying: "Eh, I don't know about
that." "It is," he asserted calmly. He rose from his chair, went to stand beside her at the
door. There was a great sheaf of yellow iris near the window.
Farther off, in the last twilight, a gang of enormous poppies
balanced and flapped their gold-scarlet, which even the darkness
could not quite put out. "We ought to be feeling very sad," she said after a while. "Why?" he asked. "Well--isn't it Kate's last night?" she said, slightly
mocking. "She's a tartar, Kate," he said. "Oh, she's too rude, she is really! The way she criticises the
things you do, and her insolence--" "The things I do?" he asked. "Oh no; you can't do anything wrong. It's the things I
do." Mrs. Thomas sounded very much incensed. "Poor Kate, she'll have to lower her key," said Severn. "Indeed she will, and a good thing too." There was silence again. "It's lightning," he said at last. "Where?" she asked, with a suddenness that surprised him. She
turned, met his eyes for a second. He sank his head, abashed. "Over there in the north-east," he said, keeping his face from
her. She watched his hand rather than the sky. "Oh," she said uninterestedly. "The storm will wheel round, you'll see," he said. "I hope it wheels the other way, then." "Well, it won't. You don't like lightning, do you? You'd even
have to take refuge with Kate if I weren't here." She laughed quietly at his irony. "No," she said, quite bitterly. "Mr. Thomas is never in when
he's wanted." "Well, as he won't be urgently required, we'll acquit him,
eh?" At that moment a white flash fell across the blackness. They
looked at each other, laughing. The thunder came broken and
hesitatingly. "I think we'll shut the door," said Mrs. Thomas, in normal,
sufficiently distant tones. A strong woman, she locked and bolted
the stiff fastenings easily. Severn pressed on the light. Mrs.
Thomas noticed the untidiness of the room. She rang, and
presently Kate appeared. "Will you clear baby's things away?" she said, in the
contemptuous tone of a hostile woman. Without answering, and in
her superb, unhastening way, Kate began to gather up the small
garments. Both women were aware of the observant, white figure of
the man standing on the hearth. Severn balanced with a fine, easy
poise, and smiled to himself, exulting a little to see the two
women in this state of hostility. Kate moved about with bowed
defiant head. Severn watched her curiously; he could not
understand her. And she was leaving to-morrow. When she had gone
out of the room, he remained still standing, thinking. Something
in his lithe, vigorous balance, so alert, and white, and
independent, caused Mrs. Thomas to glance at him from her
sewing. "I will let the blinds down," he said, becoming aware that he
was attracting attention. "Thank you," she replied conventionally. He let the lattice blinds down, then flung himself into his
chair. Mrs. Thomas sat at the table, near him, sewing. She was a
good-looking woman, well made. She sat under the one light that
was turned on. The lamp-shade was of red silk lined with yellow.
She sat in the warm-gold light. There was established between the
two a peculiar silence, like suspense, almost painful to each of
them, yet which neither would break. Severn listened to the snap
of her needle, looked from the movement of her hand to the
window, where the lightning beat and fluttered through the
lattice. The thunder was as yet far off. "Look," he said, "at the lightning." Mrs. Thomas started at the sound of his voice, and some of the
colour went from her face. She turned to the window. There, between the cracks of the Venetian blinds, came the
white flare of lightning, then the dark. Several storms were in
the sky. Scarcely had one sudden glare fluttered and palpitated
out, than another covered the window with white. It dropped, and
another flew up, beat like a moth for a moment, then vanished.
Thunder met and overlapped; two battles were fought together in
the sky. Mrs. Thomas went very pale. She tried not to look at the
window, yet, when she felt the lightning blench the lamplight,
she watched, and each time a flash leaped on the window, she
shuddered. Severn, all unconsciously, was smiling with roused
eyes. "You don't like it?" he said, at last, gently. "Not much," she answered, and he laughed. "Yet all the storms are a fair way off," he said. "Not one
near enough to touch us." "No, but," she replied, at last laying her hands in her lap,
and turning to him, "it makes me feel worked up. You don't know
how it makes me feel, as if I couldn't contain myself." She made a helpless gesture with her hand. He was watching her
closely. She seemed to him pathetically helpless and bewildered;
she was eight years older than he. He smiled in a strange, alert
fashion, like a man who feels in jeopardy. She bent over her
work, stitching nervously. There was a silence in which neither
of them could breathe freely. Presently a bigger flash than usual whitened through the
yellow lamplight. Both glanced at the window, then at each other.
For a moment it was a look of greeting; then his eyes dilated to
a smile, wide with recklessness. He felt her waver, lose her
composure, become incoherent. Seeing the faint helplessness of
coming tears, he felt his heart thud to a crisis. She had her
face at her sewing. Severn sank in his chair, half suffocated by the beating of
his heart. Yet, time after time, as the flashes came, they looked
at each other, till in the end they both were panting, and
afraid, not of the lightning but of themselves and of each
other. He was so much moved that he became conscious of his
perturbation. "What the deuce is up?" he asked himself,
wondering. At twenty-seven, he was quite chaste. Being highly
civilised, he prized women for their intuition, and because of
the delicacy with which he could transfer to them his thoughts
and feelings, without cumbrous argument. From this to a state of
passion he could only proceed by fine gradations, and such a
procedure he had never begun. Now he was startled, astonished,
perturbed, yet still scarcely conscious of his whereabouts. There
was a pain in his chest that made him pant, and an involuntary
tension in his arms, as if he must press someone to his breast.
But the idea that this someone was Mrs. Thomas would have shocked
him too much had he formed it. His passion had run on
subconsciously, till now it had come to such a pitch it must drag
his conscious soul into allegiance. This, however, would probably
never happen; he would not yield allegiance, and blind emotion,
in this direction, could not carry him alone. Towards eleven o'clock Mr. Thomas came in. "I wonder you come home at all," Severn heard Mrs. Thomas say
as her husband stepped indoors. "I left the office at half-past ten," the voice of Thomas
replied, disagreeably. "Oh, don't try to tell me that old tale," the woman answered
contemptuously. "I didn't try anything at all, Gertie," he replied with
sarcasm. "Your question was answered." Severn imagined him bowing with affected, magisterial dignity,
and he smiled. Mr. Thomas was something in the law. Mrs. Thomas left her husband in the hall, came and sat down
again at table, where she and Severn had just finished supper,
both of them reading the while. Thomas came in, flushed very red. He was of middle stature, a
thickly-built man of forty, good-looking. But he had grown
round-shouldered with thrusting forward his chin in order to look
the aggressive, strong-jawed man. He had a good jaw; but
his mouth was small and nervously pinched. His brown eyes were of
the emotional, affectionate sort, lacking pride or any
austerity. He did not speak to Severn nor Severn to him. Although as a
rule the two men were very friendly, there came these times when,
for no reason whatever, they were sullenly hostile. Thomas sat
down heavily, and reached his bottle of beer. His hands were
thick, and in their movement rudimentary. Severn watched the
thick fingers grasp the drinking-glass as if it were a
treacherous enemy. "Have you had supper, Gertie?" he asked, in tones that
sounded like an insult. He could not bear that these two should
sit reading as if he did not exist. "Yes," she replied, looking up at him in impatient surprise.
"It's late enough." Then she buried herself again in her
book. Severn ducked low and grinned. Thomas swallowed a mouthful of
beer. "I wish you could answer my questions, Gertie, without
superfluous detail," he said nastily, thrusting out his chin at
her as if cross-examining. "Oh," she said indifferently, not looking up. "Wasn't my
answer right, then?" "Quite--I thank you," he answered, bowing with great sarcasm.
It was utterly lost on his wife. "Hm-hm!" she murmured in abstraction, continuing to read. Silence resumed. Severn was grinning to himself,
chuckling. "I had a compliment paid me to-night, Gertie," said
Thomas, quite amicably, after a while. He still ignored
Severn. "Hm-hm!" murmured his wife. This was a well-known beginning.
Thomas valiantly struggled on with his courtship of his wife,
swallowing his spleen. "Councillor Jarndyce, in full committee--Are you listening,
Gertie?" "Yes," she replied, looking up for a moment. "You know Councillor Jarndyce's style," Thomas continued, in
the tone of a man determined to be patient and affable: "--the
courteous Old English Gentleman--" "Hm-hm!" replied Mrs. Thomas. "He was speaking in reply to . . ." Thomas gave innumerable
wearisome details, which no one heeded. "Then he bowed to me, then to the Chairman--'I am compelled to
say, Mr. Chairman, that we have one cause for
congratulation; we are inestimably fortunate in one member
of our staff; there is one point of which we can always be
sure--the point of law; and it is an important point, Mr.
Chairman.' "He bowed to the Chairman, he bowed to me. And you should have
heard the applause all round that Council Chamber--that great,
horseshoe table, you don't know how impressive it is. And every
face turned to me, and all round the board: 'Hear--Hear!' You
don't know what respect I command in business, Mrs.
Thomas." "Then let it suffice you," said Mrs. Thomas, calmly
indifferent. Mr. Thomas bit his bread-and-butter. "The fat-head's had two drops of Scotch, so he's drawing on
his imagination," thought Severn chuckling deeply. "I thought you said there was no meeting to-night," Mrs.
Thomas suddenly and innocently remarked after a while. "There was a meeting, in camera," replied her husband,
drawing himself up with official dignity. His excessive and
wounded dignity convulsed Severn; the lie disgusted Mrs. Thomas
in spite of herself. Presently Thomas, always courting his wife and insultingly
overlooking Severn, raised a point of politics, passed a lordly
opinion very offensive to the young man. Severn had risen,
stretched himself, and laid down his book. He was leaning on the
mantelpiece in an indifferent manner, as if he scarcely noticed
the two talkers. But hearing Thomas pronounce like a boor upon
the Woman's Bill, he roused himself, and coolly contradicted his
landlord. Mrs. Thomas shot a look of joy at the white-clad young
man who lounged so scornfully on the hearth. Thomas cracked his
knuckles one after another, and lowered his brown eyes, which
were full of hate. After a sufficient pause, for his timidity was
stronger than his impulse, he replied with a phrase that sounded
final. Severn flipped the sense out of it with a few words. In
the argument Severn, more cultured and far more nimble-witted
than his antagonist, who hauled up his answers with a lawyer's
show of invincibility, but who had not any fineness of
perception, merely spiked his opponent's pieces and smiled at
him. Also the young man enjoyed himself by looking down
scornfully, straight into the brown eyes of his senior all the
time, so that Thomas writhed. Mrs. Thomas, meantime, took her husband's side against women,
without reserve. Severn was angry; he was scornfully angry with
her. Mrs. Thomas glanced at him from time to time, a little
ecstasy lighting her fine blue eyes. The irony of her part was
delicious to her. If she had sided with Severn, that young man
would have pitied the forlorn man, and been gentle with him. The battle of words had got quieter and more intense. Mrs.
Thomas made no move to check it. At last Severn was aware he and
Thomas were both getting overheated. Thomas had doubled and
dodged painfully, like a half-frenzied rabbit that will not
realise it is trapped. Finally his efforts had moved even his
opponent to pity. Mrs. Thomas was not pitiful. She scorned her
husband's dexterity of argument, when his intellectual dishonesty
was so evident to her. Severn uttered his last phrases, and would
say no more. Then Thomas cracked his knuckles one after the
other, turned aside, consumed with morbid humiliation, and there
was silence. "I will go to bed," said Severn. He would have spoken some
conciliatory words to his landlord; he lingered with that
purpose; but he could not bring his throat to utter his
purpose. "Oh, before you go, do you mind, Mr. Severn, helping Mr.
Thomas down with Kate's box? You may be gone before he's up in
the morning, and the cab comes at ten. Do you mind?" "Why should I?" replied Severn. "Are you ready, Joe?" she asked her husband. Thomas rose with the air of a man who represses himself and is
determined to be patient. "Where is it?" he asked. "On the top landing. I'll tell Kate, and then we shan't
frighten her. She has gone to bed." Mrs. Thomas was quite mistress of the situation; both men were
humble before her. She led the way, with a candle, to the third
floor. There on the little landing, outside the closed door,
stood a large tin trunk. The three were silent because of the
baby. "Poor Kate," Severn thought. "It's a shame to kick her out
into the world, and all for nothing." He felt an impulse of hate
towards womankind. "Shall I go first, Mr. Severn?" asked Thomas. It was surprising how friendly the two men were, as soon as
they had something to do together, or when Mrs. Thomas was
absent. Then they were comrades, Thomas, the elder, the
thick-set, playing the protector's part, though always
deferential to the younger, whimsical man. "I had better go first," said Thomas kindly. "And if you put
this round the handle, it won't cut your fingers." He offered the young man a little flexible book from his
pocket. Severn had such small, fine hands that Thomas pitied
them. Severn raised one end of the trunk. Leaning back, and flashing
a smile to Mrs. Thomas, who stood with the candle, he whispered:
"Kate's got a lot more impediments than I have." "I know it's heavy," laughed Mrs. Thomas. Thomas, waiting at the brink of the stairs, saw the young man
tilting his bare throat towards the smiling woman, and whispering
words which pleased her. "At your pleasure, sir," he said in his most grating and
official tones. "Sorry," Severn flung out scornfully. The elder man retreated very cautiously, stiffly lowering
himself down one stair, looking anxiously behind. "Are you holding the light for me, Gertie?" he snapped
sarcastically, when he had managed one stair. She lifted the
candle with a swoop. He was in a bustle and a funk, Severn,
always indifferent, smiled slightly, and lowered the box with
negligent ease of movement. As a matter of fact, three-quarters
of the heavy weight: pressed on Thomas. Mrs. Thomas watched the
two figures from above. "If I slip now," thought Severn, as he noticed the anxious,
red face of his landlord, "I should squash him like a shrimp,"
and he laughed to himself. "Don't come yet," he called softly to Mrs. Thomas, whom he
heard following. "If you slip, your husband's bottom-most under
the smash. 'Beware the fearful avalanche!'" He laughed, and Mrs. Thomas gave a little chuckle. Thomas,
very red and flustered, glanced irritably back at them, but said
nothing. Near the bottom of the staircase there was a twist in the
stairs. Severn was feeling particularly reckless. When he came to
the turn, he chuckled to himself, feeling his house-slippers
unsafe on the narrowed, triangular stairs. He loved a risk above
all things, and a subconscious instinct made the risk doubly
sweet when his rival was under the box. Though Severn would not
knowingly have hurt a hair of his landlord's head. When Thomas was beginning to sweat with relief, being only one
step from the landing, Severn did slip, quite accidentally. The
great box crashed as if in pain, Severn glissaded down the
stairs. Thomas was flung backwards across the landing, and his
head went thud against the banister post. Severn, seeing no great
harm done, was struggling to his feet, laughing and saying: "I'm
awfully sorry--" when Thomas got up. The elder man was infuriated
like a bull. He saw the laughing face of Severn and he went mad.
His brown eyes flared. "You ----, you did it on purpose!" he shouted, and straightway
he fetched the young man two heavy blows, upon the jaw and ear.
Thomas, a footballer and a boxer in his youth, had been brought
up among the roughs of Swansea; Severn in a religious college in
France. The young man had never been struck in the face before.
He instantly went white and mad with rage. Thomas stood on guard,
fists up. But on the small, lumbered landing there was no room
for fight. Moreover, Severn had no instinct of fisticuffs. With
open, stiff fingers, the young man sprang on his adversary. In
spite of the blow he received, but did not feel, he flung himself
again forward, and then, catching Thomas's collar, brought him
down with a crash. Instantly his exquisite hands were dug in the
other's thick throat, the linen collar having been torn open.
Thomas fought madly, with blind, brute strength. But the other
lay wrapped on him like a white steel, his rare intelligence
concentrated, not scattered; concentrated on strangling Thomas
swiftly. He pressed forward, forcing his landlord's head over the
edge of the next flight of stairs. Thomas, stout and
full-blooded, lost every trace of self-possession; he struggled
like an animal at slaughter. The blood came out of his nose over
his face; he made horrid choking sounds as he struggled. Suddenly Severn felt his face turned between two hands. With a
shock of real agony, he met the eyes of Kate. She bent forward,
she captured his eyes. "What do you think you're doing?" she cried in frenzy of
indignation. She leaned over him in her night-dress, her two
black plaits hanging perpendicular. He hid his face, and took his
hands away. As he kneeled to rise, he glanced up the stairs. Mrs.
Thomas stood against the banisters, motionless in a trance of
horror and remorse. He saw the remorse plainly. Severn turned
away his face, and was wild with shame. He saw his landlord
kneeling, his hands at his throat, choking, rattling, and
gasping. The young man's heart filled with remorse and grief. He
put his arms round the heavy man, and raised him, saying
tenderly: "Let me help you up." He had got Thomas up against the wall, when the choked man
began to slide down again in collapse, gasping all the time
pitifully. "No, stand up; you're best standing up," commanded Severn
sharply, rearing his landlord up again. Thomas managed to obey,
stupidly. His nose still bled, he still held his throat and
gasped with a crowing sound. But his breathing was getting
deeper. "Water, Kate--and sponge--cold," said Severn. Kate was back in an instant. The young man bathed his
landlord's face and temples and throat. The bleeding ceased
directly, the stout man's breathing became a series of irregular,
jerky gasps, like a child that has been sobbing hard. At last he
took a long breath, and his breast settled into regular stroke,
with little fluttering interruptions. Still holding his hand to
his throat, he looked up with dazed, piteous brown eyes, mutely
wretched and appealing. He moved his tongue as if to try it, put
back his head a little, and moved the muscles of his throat. Then
he replaced his hands on the place that ached. Severn was grief-stricken. He would willingly, at that moment,
have given his right hand for the man he had hurt. Mrs. Thomas, meanwhile, stood on the stairs, watching: for a
long time she dared not move, knowing she would sink down. She
watched. One of the crises of her life was passing. Full of
remorse, she passed over into the bitter land of repentance. She
must no longer allow herself to hope for anything for herself.
The rest of her life must be spent in self-abnegation: she must
seek for no sympathy, must ask for no grace in love, no grace and
harmony in living. Henceforward, as far as her own desires went,
she was dead. She took a fierce joy in the anguish of it. "Do you feel better?" Severn asked of the sick man. Thomas
looked at the questioner with tragic brown eyes, in which was no
anger, only mute self-pity. He did not answer, but looked like a
wounded animal, very pitiable. Mrs. Thomas quickly repressed an
impulse of impatient scorn, replacing it with a numb, abstract
sense of duty, lofty and cold. "Come," said Severn, full of pity, and gentle as a woman. "Let
me help you to bed." Thomas, leaning heavily on the young man, whose white garments
were dabbed with blood and water, stumbled forlornly into his
room. There Severn unlaced his boots and got off the remnant of
his collar. At this point Mrs. Thomas came in. She had taken her
part; she was weeping also. "Thank you, Mr. Severn," she said coldly. Severn, dismissed,
slunk out of the room. She went up to her husband, took his
pathetic head upon her bosom, and pressed it there. As Severn
went downstairs, he heard the few sobs of the husband, among the
quick sniffing of the wife's tears. And he saw Kate, who had
stood on the stairs to see all went well, climb up to her room
with cold, calm face. He locked up the house, put everything in order. Then he
heated some water to bathe his face, which was swelling
painfully. Having finished his fomentations, he sat thinking
bitterly, with a good deal of shame. As he sat, Mrs. Thomas came down for something. Her bearing
was cold and hostile. She glanced round to see all was safe.
Then: "You will put out the light when you go to bed, Mr. Severn,"
she said, more formally than a landlady at the seaside would
speak. He was insulted: any ordinary being would turn off the
light on retiring. Moreover, almost every night it was he who
locked up the house, and came last to bed. "I will, Mrs. Thomas," he answered. He bowed, his eyes
flickering with irony, because he knew his face was swollen. She returned again after having reached the landing. "Perhaps you wouldn't mind helping me down with the
box," she said, quietly and coldly. He did not reply, as he would
have done an hour before, that he certainly should not help her,
because it was a man's job, and she must not do it. Now, he rose,
bowed, and went upstairs with her. Taking the greater part of the
weight, he came quickly downstairs with the load. "Thank you; it's very good of you. Good-night," said Mrs.
Thomas, and she retired. In the morning Severn rose late. His face was considerably
swollen. He went in his dressing-gown across to Thomas's room.
The other man lay in bed, looking much the same as ever, but
mournful in aspect, though pleased within himself at being
coddled. "How are you this morning?" Severn asked. Thomas smiled, looked almost with tenderness up at his
friend. "Oh, I'm all right, thanks," he replied. He looked at the other's swollen and bruised cheek, then
again, affectionately, into Severn's eyes. "I'm sorry"--with a glance of indication--"for that," he said
simply. Severn smiled with his eyes, in his own winsome
manner. "I didn't know we were such essential brutes," he said. "I
thought I was so civilised . . ." Again he smiled, with a wry, stiff mouth. Thomas gave a
deprecating little grunt of a laugh. "Oh, I don't know," he said. "It shows a man's got some fight
in him." He looked up in the other's face appealingly. Severn smiled,
with a touch of bitterness. The two men grasped hands. To the end of their acquaintance, Severn and Thomas were close
friends, with a gentleness in their bearing, one towards the
other. On the other hand, Mrs. Thomas was only polite and formal
with Severn, treating him as if he were a stranger. Kate, her fate disposed of by her "betters", passed out of
their three lives.</story>