<story title="THE PRINCESS" date="1925">
To her father, she was The Princess. To her Boston aunts and
uncles she was just Dollie Urquhart, poor little
thing. Colin Urquhart was just a bit mad. He was of an old Scottish
family, and he claimed royal blood. The blood of Scottish kings
flowed in his veins. On this point, his American relatives said,
he was just a bit "off". They could not bear any more to be told
which royal blood of Scotland blued his veins. The whole
thing was rather ridiculous, and a sore point. The only fact they
remembered was that it was not Stuart. He was a handsome man, with a wide-open blue eye that seemed
sometimes to be looking at nothing, soft black hair brushed
rather low on his low, broad brow, and a very attractive body.
Add to this a most beautiful speaking voice, usually rather
hushed and diffident, but sometimes resonant and powerful like
bronze, and you have the sum of his charms. He looked like some
old Celtic hero. He looked as if he should have worn a greyish
kilt and a sporran, and shown his knees. His voice came direct
out of the hushed Ossianic past. For the rest, he was one of those gentlemen of sufficient but
not excessive means who fifty years ago wandered vaguely about,
never arriving anywhere, never doing anything, and never
definitely being anything, yet well received in the good society
of more than one country. He did not marry till he was nearly forty, and then it was a
wealthy Miss Prescott, from New England. Hannah Prescott at
twenty-two was fascinated by the man with the soft black hair not
yet touched by grey, and the wide, rather vague blue eyes. Many
women had been fascinated before her. But Colin Urquhart, by his
very vagueness, had avoided any decisive connection. Mrs. Urquhart lived three years in the mist and glamour of her
husband's presence. And then it broke her. It was like living
with a fascinating spectre. About most things he was completely,
even ghostly oblivious. He was always charming, courteous,
perfectly gracious in that hushed, musical voice of his. But
absent. When all came to all, he just wasn't there. "Not all
there," as the vulgar say. He was the father of the little girl she bore at the end of
the first year. But this did not substantiate him the more. His
very beauty and his haunting musical quality became dreadful to
her after the first few months. The strange echo: he was like a
living echo! His very flesh, when you touched it, did not seem
quite the flesh of a real man. Perhaps it was that he was a little bit mad. She thought it
definitely the night her baby was born. "Ah, so my little princess has come at last!" he said, in his
throaty, singing Celtic voice, like a glad chant, swaying
absorbed. It was a tiny, frail baby, with wide, amazed blue eyes. They
christened it Mary Henrietta. She called the little thing My
Dollie. He called it always My Princess. It was useless to fly at him. He just opened his wide blue
eyes wider, and took a child-like, silent dignity there was no
getting past. Hannah Prescott had never been robust. She had no great desire
to live. So when the baby was two years old she suddenly
died. The Prescotts felt a deep but unadmitted resentment against
Colin Urquhart. They said he was selfish. Therefore they
discontinued Hannah's income, a month after her burial in
Florence, after they had urged the father to give the child over
to them, and he had courteously, musically, but quite finally
refused. He treated the Prescotts as if they were not of his
world, not realities to him: just casual phenomena, or
gramophones, talking-machines that had to be answered. He
answered them. But of their actual existence he was never once
aware. They debated having him certified unsuitable to be guardian of
his own child. But that would have created a scandal. So they did
the simplest thing, after all--washed their hands of him. But
they wrote scrupulously to the child, and sent her modest
presents of money at Christmas, and on the anniversary of the
death of her mother. To The Princess her Boston relatives were for many years just
a nominal reality. She lived with her father, and he travelled
continually, though in a modest way, living on his moderate
income. And never going to America. The child changed nurses all
the time. In Italy it was a contadina; in India she had an ayah;
in Germany she had a yellow-haired peasant girl. Father and child were inseparable. He was not a recluse.
Wherever he went he was to be seen paying formal calls going out
to luncheon or to tea, rarely to dinner. And always with the
child. People called her Princess Urquhart, as if that were her
christened name. She was a quick, dainty little thing with dark gold hair that
went a soft brown, and wide, slightly prominent blue eyes that
were at once so candid and so knowing. She was always grown up;
she never really grew up. Always strangely wise, and always
childish. It was her father's fault. "My little Princess must never take too much notice of people
and the things they say and do," he repeated to her. "People
don't know what they are doing and saying. They chatter-chatter,
and they hurt one another, and they hurt themselves very often,
till they cry. But don't take any notice, my little Princess.
Because it is all nothing. Inside everybody there is another
creature, a demon which doesn't care at all. You peel away all
the things they say and do and feel, as cook peels away the
outside of the onions. And in the middle of everybody there is a
green demon which you can't peel away. And this green demon never
changes, and it doesn't care at all about all the things that
happen to the outside leaves of the person, all the
chatter-chatter, and all the husbands and wives and children, and
troubles and fusses. You peel everything away from people, and
there is a green, upright demon in every man and woman; and this
demon is a man's real self, and a woman's real self. It doesn't
really care about anybody, it belongs to the demons and the
primitive fairies, who never care. But, even so, there are big
demons and mean demons, and splendid demonish fairies, and vulgar
ones. But there are no royal fairy women left. Only you, my
little Princess. You are the last of the royal race of the old
people; the last, my Princess. There are no others. You and I are
the last. When I am dead there will be only you. And that is why,
darling, you will never care for any of the people in the world
very much. Because their demons are all dwindled and vulgar. They
are not royal. Only you are royal, after me. Always remember
that. And always remember, it is a great secret. If you
tell people, they will try to kill you, because they will envy
you for being a Princess. It is our great secret, darling. I am a
prince, and you a princess, of the old, old blood. And we keep
our secret between us, all alone. And so, darling, you must treat
all people very politely, because noblesse oblige. But you
must never forget that you alone are the last of Princesses, and
that all other are less than you are, less noble, more vulgar.
Treat them politely and gently and kindly, darling. But you are
the Princess, and they are commoners. Never try to think of them
as if they were like you. They are not. You will find, always,
that they are lacking, lacking in the royal touch, which only you
have--" The Princess learned her lesson early--the first lesson, of
absolute reticence, the impossibility of intimacy with any other
than her father; the second lesson, of naïve, slightly
benevolent politeness. As a small child, something crystallised
in her character, making her clear and finished, and as
impervious as crystal. "Dear child!" her hostesses said of her. "She is so quaint and
old-fashioned; such a lady, poor little mite!" She was erect, and very dainty. Always small, nearly tiny in
physique, she seemed like a changeling beside her big, handsome,
slightly mad father. She dressed very simply, usually in blue or
delicate greys, with little collars of old Milan point, or very
finely-worked linen. She had exquisite little hands, that made
the piano sound like a spinet when she played. She was rather
given to wearing cloaks and capes, instead of coats, out of
doors, and little eighteenth-century sort of hats. Her complexion
was pure apple-blossom. She looked as if she had stepped out of a picture. But no one,
to her dying day, ever knew exactly the strange picture her
father had framed her in and from which she never stepped. Her grandfather and grandmother and her Aunt Maud demanded
twice to see her, once in Rome and once in Paris. Each time they
were charmed, piqued, and annoyed. She was so exquisite and such
a little virgin. At the same time so knowing and so oddly
assured. That odd, assured touch of condescension, and the inward
coldness, infuriated her American relations. Only she really fascinated her grandfather. He was spellbound;
in a way, in love with the little faultless thing. His wife would
catch him brooding, musing over his grandchild, long months after
the meeting, and craving to see her again. He cherished to the
end the fond hope that she might come to live with him and her
grandmother. "Thank you so much, grandfather. You are so very kind. But
Papa and I are such an old couple, you see, such a crochety old
couple, living in a world of our own." Her father let her see the world--from the outside. And he let
her read. When she was in her teens she read Zola and Maupassant,
and with the eyes of Zola and Maupassant she looked on Paris. A
little later she read Tolstoi and Dostoevsky. The latter confused
her. The others, she seemed to understand with a very shrewd,
canny understanding, just as she understood the Decameron stories
as she read them in their old Italian, or the Nibelung poems.
Strange and uncanny, she seemed to understand things in a
cold light perfectly, with all the flush of fire absent. She was
something like a changeling, not quite human. This earned her, also, strange antipathies. Cabmen and railway
porters, especially in Paris and Rome, would suddenly treat her
with brutal rudeness, when she was alone. They seemed to look on
her with sudden violent antipathy. They sensed in her curious
impertinence, an easy, sterile impertinence towards the things
they felt most. She was so assured, and her flower of
maidenhood was so scentless. She could look at a lusty, sensual
Roman cabman as if he were a sort of grotesque, to make her
smile. She knew all about him, in Zola. And the peculiar
condescension with which she would give him her order, as if she,
frail, beautiful thing, were the only reality, and he, coarse
monster, was a sort of Caliban floundering in the mud on the
margin of the pool of the perfect lotus, would suddenly enrage
the fellow, the real Mediterranean who prided himself on his
beauté male, and to whom the phallic mystery was
still the only mystery. And he would turn a terrible face on her,
bully her in a brutal, coarse fashion--hideous. For to him she
had only the blasphemous impertinence of her own sterility. Encounters like these made her tremble, and made her know she
must have support from the outside. The power of her spirit did
not extend to these low people, and they had all the physical
power. She realised an implacability of hatred in their turning
on her. But she did not lose her head. She quietly paid out money
and turned away. Those were dangerous moments, though, and she learned to be
prepared for them. The Princess she was, and the fairy from the
North, and could never understand the volcanic phallic rage with
which coarse people could turn on her in a paroxysm of hatred.
They never turned on her father like that. And quite early she
decided it was the New England mother in her whom they hated.
Never for one minute could she see with the old Roman eyes, see
herself as sterility, the barren flower taking on airs and an
intolerable impertinence. This was what the Roman cabman saw in
her. And he longed to crush the barren blossom. Its sexless
beauty and its authority put him in a passion of brutal
revolt. When she was nineteen her grandfather died, leaving her a
considerable fortune in the safe hands of responsible trustees.
They would deliver her her income, but only on condition that she
resided for six months in the year in the United States. "Why should they make me conditions?" she said to her father.
"I refuse to be imprisoned six months in the year in the United
States. We will tell them to keep their money." "Let us be wise, my little Princess, let us be wise. No, we
are almost poor, and we are never safe from rudeness. I cannot
allow anybody to be rude to me. I hate it, I hate it!" His eyes
flamed as he said it. "I could kill any man or woman who is rude
to me. But we are in exile in the world. We are powerless. If we
were really poor, we should be quite powerless, and then I should
die. No, my Princess. Let us take their money, then they will not
dare to be rude to us. Let us take it, as we put on clothes, to
cover ourselves from their aggressions." There began a new phase, when the father and daughter spent
their summers on the Great Lakes or in California, or in the
South-West. The father was something of a poet, the daughter
something of a painter. He wrote poems about the lakes or the
redwood trees, and she made dainty drawings. He was physically a
strong man, and he loved the out-of-doors. He would go off with
her for days, paddling in a canoe and sleeping by a camp-fire.
Frail little Princess, she was always undaunted, always
undaunted. She would ride with him on horseback over the mountain
trails till she was so tired she was nothing but a bodiless
consciousness sitting astride her pony. But she never gave in.
And at night he folded her in her blanket on a bed of balsam pine
twigs, and she lay and looked at the stars unmurmuring. She was
fulfilling her rôle. People said to her as the years passed, and she was a woman of
twenty-five, then a woman of thirty, and always the same virgin
dainty Princess, 'knowing' in a dispassionate way, like an old
woman, and utterly intact: "Don't you ever think what you will do when your father is no
longer with you?" She looked at her interlocutor with that cold, elfin
detachment of hers: "No, I never think of it," she said. She had a tiny, but exquisite little house in London, and
another small, perfect house in Connecticut, each with a faithful
housekeeper. Two homes, if she chose. And she knew many
interesting literary and artistic people. What more? So the years passed imperceptibly. And she had that quality of
the sexless fairies, she did not change. At thirty-three she
looked twenty-three. Her father, however, was ageing, and becoming more and more
queer. It was now her task to be his guardian in his private
madness. He spent the last three years of life in the house in
Connecticut. He was very much estranged, sometimes had fits of
violence which almost killed the little Princess. Physical
violence was horrible to her; it seemed to shatter her heart. But
she found a woman a few years younger than herself, well-educated
and sensitive, to be a sort of nurse-companion to the mad old
man. So the fact of madness was never openly admitted. Miss
Cummins, the companion, had a passionate loyalty to the Princess,
and a curious affection, tinged with love, for the handsome,
white-haired, courteous old man, who was never at all aware of
his fits of violence once they had passed. The Princess was thirty-eight years old when her father died.
And quite unchanged. She was still tiny, and like a dignified,
scentless flower. Her soft brownish hair, almost the colour of
beaver fur, was bobbed, and fluffed softly round her
apple-blossom face, that was modelled with an arched nose like a
proud old Florentine portrait. In her voice, manner and bearing
she was exceedingly still, like a flower that has blossomed in a
shadowy place. And from her blue eyes looked out the Princess's
eternal laconic challenge, that grew almost sardonic as the years
passed. She was the Princess, and sardonically she looked out on
a princeless world. She was relieved when her father died, and at the same time,
it was as if everything had evaporated around her. She had lived
in a sort of hot-house, in the aura of her father's madness.
Suddenly the hot-house had been removed from around her, and she
was in the raw, vast, vulgar open air. Quoi faire? What was she to do? She seemed faced with
absolute nothingness. Only she had Miss Cummins, who shared with
her the secret, and almost the passion for her father. In fact,
the Princess felt that her passion for her mad father had in some
curious way transferred itself largely to Charlotte Cummins
during the last years. And now Miss Cummins was the vessel that
held the passion for the dead man. She herself, the Princess, was
an empty vessel. An empty vessel in the enormous warehouse of the world. Quoi faire? What was she to do? She felt that, since
she could not evaporate into nothingness, like alcohol from an
unstoppered bottle, she must do something. Never before in
her life had she felt the incumbency. Never, never had she felt
she must do anything. That was left to the vulgar. Now her father was dead, she found herself on the
fringe of the vulgar crowd, sharing their necessity to
do something. It was a little humiliating. She felt
herself becoming vulgarised. At the same time she found herself
looking at men with a shrewder eye: an eye to marriage. Not that
she felt any sudden interest in men, or attraction towards them.
No. She was still neither interested nor attracted towards men
vitally. But marriage, that peculiar abstraction, had
imposed a sort of spell on her. She thought that marriage,
in the blank abstract, was the thing she ought to do. That
marriage implied a man she also knew. She knew all the
facts. But the man seemed a property of her own mind rather than
a thing in himself, another thing. Her father died in the summer, the month after her
thirty-eighth birthday. When all was over, the obvious thing to
do, of course, was to travel. With Miss Cummins. The two women
knew each other intimately, but they were always Miss Urquhart
and Miss Cummins to one another, and a certain distance was
instinctively maintained. Miss Cummins, from Philadelphia, of
scholastic stock, and intelligent but untravelled, four years
younger than the Princess, felt herself immensely the junior of
her 'lady'. She had a sort of passionate veneration for the
Princess, who seemed to her ageless, timeless. She could not see
the rows of tiny, dainty, exquisite shoes in the Princess's
cupboard without feeling a stab at the heart, a stab of
tenderness and reverence, almost of awe. Miss Cummins also was virginal, but with a look of puzzled
surprise in her brown eyes. Her skin was pale and clear, her
features well modelled, but there was a certain blankness in her
expression, where the Princess had an odd touch of Renaissance
grandeur. Miss Cummins's voice was also hushed almost to a
whisper; it was the inevitable effect of Colin Urquhart's room.
But the hushedness had a hoarse quality. The Princess did not want to go to Europe. Her face seemed
turned west. Now her father was gone, she felt she would go west,
westwards, as if for ever. Following, no doubt, the March of
Empire, which is brought up rather short on the Pacific coast,
among swarms of wallowing bathers. No, not the Pacific coast. She would stop short of that. The
South-West was less vulgar. She would go to New Mexico. She and Miss Cummins arrived at the Rancho del Cerro Gordo
towards the end of August, when the crowd was beginning to drift
back east. The ranch lay by a stream on the desert some four
miles from the foot of the mountains, a mile away from the Indian
pueblo of San Cristobal. It was a ranch for the rich; the
Princess paid thirty dollars a day for herself and Miss Cummins.
But then she had a little cottage to herself, among the apple
trees of the orchard, with an excellent cook. She and Miss
Cummins, however, took dinner at evening in the large
guest-house. For the Princess still entertained the idea of
marriage. The guests at the Rancho del Cerro Gordo were of all sorts,
except the poor sort. They were practically all rich, and many
were romantic. Some were charming, others were vulgar, some were
movie people, quite quaint and not unattractive in their
vulgarity, and many were Jews. The Princess did not care for
Jews, though they were usually the most interesting to
talk to. So she talked a good deal with the Jews, and
painted with the artists, and rode with the young men from
college, and had altogether quite a good time. And yet she felt
something of a fish out of water, or a bird in the wrong forest.
And marriage remained still completely in the abstract. No
connecting it with any of these young men, even the nice
ones. The Princess looked just twenty-five. The freshness of her
mouth, the hushed, delicate-complexioned virginity of her face
gave her not a day more. Only a certain laconic look in her eyes
was disconcerting. When she was forced to write her age,
she put twenty-eight, making the figure two rather badly,
so that it just avoided being a three. Men hinted marriage at her. Especially boys from college
suggested it from a distance. But they all failed before the look
of sardonic ridicule in the Princess's eyes. It always seemed to
her rather preposterous, quite ridiculous, and a tiny bit
impertinent on their part. The only man that intrigued her at all was one of the guides,
a man called Romero--Domingo Romero. It was he who had sold the
ranch itself to the Wilkiesons, ten years before, for two
thousand dollars. He had gone away, then reappeared at the old
place. For he was the son of the old Romero, the last of the
Spanish family that had owned miles of land around San Cristobal.
But the coming of the white man and the failure of the vast
flocks of sheep, and the fatal inertia which overcomes all men,
at last, on the desert near the mountains, had finished the
Romero family. The last descendants were just Mexican
peasants. Domingo, the heir, had spent his two thousand dollars, and was
working for white people. He was now about thirty years old, a
tall, silent fellow, with a heavy closed mouth and black eyes
that looked across at one almost sullenly. From behind he was
handsome, with a strong, natural body, and the back of his neck
very dark and well-shapen, strong with life. But his dark face
was long and heavy, almost sinister, with that peculiar heavy
meaninglessness in it, characteristic of the Mexicans of his own
locality. They are strong, they seem healthy. They laugh and joke
with one another. But their physique and their natures seem
static, as if there were nowhere, nowhere at all for their
energies to go, and their faces, degenerating to misshapen
heaviness, seem to have no raison d'être, no
radical meaning. Waiting either to die or to be aroused into
passion and hope. In some of the black eyes a queer, haunting
mystic quality, sombre and a bit gruesome, the
skull-and-cross-bones look of the Penitentes. They had found
their raison d'être in self-torture and
death-worship. Unable to wrest a positive significance for
themselves from the vast, beautiful, but vindictive landscape
they were born into, they turned on their own selves, and
worshipped death through self-torture. The mystic gloom of this
showed in their eyes. But as a rule the dark eyes of the Mexicans were heavy and
half alive, sometimes hostile, sometimes kindly, often with the
fatal Indian glaze on them, or the fatal Indian glint. Domingo Romero was almost a typical Mexican to look at,
with the typical heavy, dark, long face, clean-shaven, with an
almost brutally heavy mouth. His eyes were black and
Indian-looking. Only, at the centre of their hopelessness was a
spark of pride, or self-confidence, or dauntlessness. Just a
spark in the midst of the blackness of static despair. But this spark was the difference between him and the mass of
men. It gave a certain alert sensitiveness to his bearing and a
certain beauty to his appearance. He wore a low-crowned black
hat, instead of the ponderous headgear of the usual Mexican, and
his clothes were thinnish and graceful. Silent, aloof, almost
imperceptible in the landscape, he was an admirable guide, with a
startling quick intelligence that anticipated difficulties about
to rise. He could cook, too, crouching over the camp-fire and
moving his lean deft brown hands. The only fault he had was that
he was not forthcoming, he wasn't chatty and cosy. "Oh, don't send Romero with us," the Jews would say. "One
can't get any response from him." Tourists come and go, but they rarely see anything,
inwardly. None of them ever saw the spark at the middle of
Romero's eye; they were not alive enough to see it. The Princess caught it one day, when she had him for a guide.
She was fishing for trout in the canyon, Miss Cummins was reading
a book, the horses were tied under the trees, Romero was fixing a
proper fly on her line. He fixed the fly and handed her the line,
looking up at her. And at that moment she caught the spark in his
eye. And instantly she knew that he was a gentleman, that his
'demon', as her father would have said, was a fine demon. And
instantly her manner towards him changed. He had perched her on a rock over a quiet pool, beyond the
cotton-wood trees. It was early September, and the canyon already
cool, but the leaves of the cottonwoods were still green. The
Princess stood on her rock, a small but perfectly-formed figure,
wearing a soft, close grey sweater and neatly-cut grey
riding-breeches, with tall black boots, her fluffy brown hair
straggling from under a little grey felt hat. A woman? Not quite.
A changeling of some sort, perched in outline there on the rock,
in the bristling wild canyon. She knew perfectly well how to
handle a line. Her father had made a fisherman of her. Romero, in a black shirt and with loose black trousers pushed
into wide black riding-boots, was fishing a little farther down.
He had put his hat on a rock behind him; his dark head was bent a
little forward, watching the water. He had caught three trout.
From time to time he glanced up-stream at the Princess, perched
there so daintily. He saw she had caught nothing. Soon he quietly drew in his line and came up to her. His keen
eye watched her line, watched her position. Then, quietly, he
suggested certain changes to her, putting his sensitive brown
hand before her. And he withdrew a little, and stood in silence,
leaning against a tree, watching her. He was helping her across
the distance. She knew it, and thrilled. And in a moment she had
a bite. In two minutes she landed a good trout. She looked round
at him quickly, her eyes sparkling, the colour heightened in her
cheeks. And as she met his eyes a smile of greeting went over his
dark face, very sudden, with an odd sweetness. She knew he was helping her. And she felt in his presence a
subtle, insidious male kindliness she had never known
before waiting upon her. Her cheek flushed, and her blue eyes
darkened. After this, she always looked for him, and for that curious
dark beam of a man's kindliness which he could give her, as it
were, from his chest, from his heart. It was something she had
never known before. A vague, unspoken intimacy grew up between them. She liked his
voice, his appearance, his presence. His natural language was
Spanish; he spoke English like a foreign language, rather slow,
with a slight hesitation, but with a sad, plangent sonority
lingering over from his Spanish. There was a certain subtle
correctness in his appearance; he was always perfectly shaved;
his hair was thick and rather long on top, but always carefully
groomed behind. And his fine black cashmere shirt, his wide
leather belt, his well-cut, wide black trousers going into the
embroidered cowboy boots had a certain inextinguishable elegance.
He wore no silver rings or buckles. Only his boots were
embroidered and decorated at the top with an inlay of white
suède. He seemed elegant, slender, yet he was very
strong. And at the same time, curiously, he gave her the feeling that
death was not far from him. Perhaps he too was half in love with
death. However that may be, the sense she had that death was not
far from him made him 'possible' to her. Small as she was, she was quite a good horsewoman. They gave
her at the ranch a sorrel mare, very lovely in colour, and
well-made, with a powerful broad neck and the hollow back that
betokens a swift runner. Tansy, she was called. Her only fault
was the usual mare's failing, she was inclined to be
hysterical. So that every day the Princess set off with Miss Cummins and
Romero, on horseback, riding into the mountains. Once they went
camping for several days, with two more friends in the party. "I think I like it better," the Princess said to Romero, "when
we three go alone." And he gave her one of his quick, transfiguring smiles. It was curious no white man had ever showed her this capacity
for subtle gentleness, this power to help her in silence
across a distance, if she were fishing without success, or tired
of her horse, or if Tansy suddenly got scared. It was as if
Romero could send her from his heart a dark beam of
succour and sustaining. She had never known this before, and it
was very thrilling. Then the smile that suddenly creased his dark face, showing
the strong white teeth. It creased his face almost into a savage
grotesque. And at the same time there was in it something so
warm, such a dark flame of kindliness for her, she was elated
into her true Princess self. Then that vivid, latent spark in his eye, which she had seen,
and which she knew he was aware she had seen. It made an
inter-recognition between them, silent and delicate. Here he was
delicate as a woman in this subtle inter-recognition. And yet his presence only put to flight in her the
idée fixe of 'marriage'. For some reason, in her
strange little brain, the idea of marrying him could not
enter. Not for any definite reason. He was in himself a
gentleman, and she had plenty of money for two. There was no
actual obstacle. Nor was she conventional. No, now she came down to it, it was as if their two
'dæmons' could marry, were perhaps married. Only their two
selves, Miss Urquhart and Señor Domingo Romero,
were for some reason incompatible. There was a peculiar subtle
intimacy of inter-recognition between them. But she did not see
in the least how it would lead to marriage. Almost she could more
easily marry one of the nice boys from Harvard or Yale. The time passed, and she let it pass. The end of September
came, with aspens going yellow on the mountain heights, and
oak-scrub going red. But as yet the cottonwoods in the valley and
canyons had not changed. "When will you go away?" Romero asked her, looking at her
fixedly, with a blank black eye. "By the end of October," she said. "I have promised to be in
Santa Barbara at the beginning of November." He was hiding the spark in his eye from her. But she saw the
peculiar sullen thickening of his heavy mouth. She had complained to him many times that one never saw any
wild animals, except chipmunks and squirrels, and perhaps a skunk
and a porcupine. Never a deer, or a bear, or a mountain lion. "Are there no bigger animals in these mountains?" she asked,
dissatisfied. "Yes," he said. "There are deer--I see their tracks. And I saw
the tracks of a bear." "But why can one never see the animals themselves?" She looked
dissatisfied and wistful like a child. "Why, it's pretty hard for you to see them. They won't let you
come close. You have to keep still, in a place where they come.
Or else you have to follow their tracks a long way." "I can't bear to go away till I've seen them: a bear, or a
deer--" The smile came suddenly on his face, indulgent. "Well, what do you want? Do you want to go up into the
mountains to some place, to wait till they come?" "Yes," she said, looking up at him with a sudden naïve
impulse of recklessness. And immediately his face became sombre again, responsible. "Well," he said, with slight irony, a touch of mockery of her.
"You will have to find a house. It's very cold at night now. You
would have to stay all night in a house." "And there are no houses up there?" she said. "Yes," he replied. "There is a little shack that belongs to
me, that a miner built a long time ago, looking for gold. You can
go there and stay one night, and maybe you see something. Maybe!
I don't know. Maybe nothing come." "How much chance is there?" "Well, I don't know. Last time when I was there I see three
deer come down to drink at the water, and I shot two raccoons.
But maybe this time we don't see anything." "Is there water there?" she asked. "Yes, there is a little round pond, you know, below the spruce
trees. And the water from the snow runs into it." "Is it far away?" she asked. "Yes, pretty far. You see that ridge there"--and turning to
the mountains he lifted his arm in the gesture which is somehow
so moving, out in the West, pointing to the distance--"that ridge
where there are no trees, only rock"--his black eyes were
focussed on the distance, his face impassive, but as if in
pain--"you go round that ridge, and along, then you come down
through the spruce trees to where that cabin is. My father bought
that placer claim from a miner who was broke, but nobody ever
found any gold or anything, and nobody ever goes there. Too
lonesome!" The Princess watched the massive, heavy-sitting, beautiful
bulk of the Rocky Mountains. It was early in October, and the
aspens were already losing their gold leaves; high up, the spruce
and pine seemed to be growing darker; the great flat patches of
oak scrub on the heights were red like gore. "Can I go over there?" she asked, turning to him and meeting
the spark in his eye. His face was heavy with responsibility. "Yes," he said, "you can go. But there'll be snow over the
ridge, and it's awful cold, and awful lonesome." "I should like to go," she said, persistent. "All right," he said. "You can go if you want to." She doubted, though, if the Wilkiesons would let her go; at
least alone with Romero and Miss Cummins. Yet an obstinacy characteristic of her nature, an obstinacy
tinged perhaps with madness, had taken hold of her. She wanted to
look over the mountains into their secret heart. She wanted to
descend to the cabin below the spruce trees, near the tarn of
bright green water. She wanted to see the wild animals move about
in their wild unconsciousness. "Let us say to the Wilkiesons that we want to make the trip
round the Frijoles canyon," she said. The trip round the Frijoles canyon was a usual thing. It would
not be strenuous, nor cold, nor lonely: they could sleep in the
log house that was called an hotel. Romero looked at her quickly. "If you want to say that," he replied, "you can tell Mrs.
Wilkieson. Only I know she'll be mad with me if I take you up in
the mountains to that place. And I've got to go there first with
a pack-horse, to take lots of blankets and some bread. Maybe Miss
Cummins can't stand it. Maybe not. It's a hard trip." He was speaking, and thinking, in the heavy, disconnected
Mexican fashion. "Never mind!" The Princess was suddenly very decisive and
stiff with authority. "I want to do it. I will arrange with Mrs.
Wilkieson. And we'll go on Saturday." He shook his head slowly. "I've got to go up on Sunday with a pack-horse and blankets,"
he said. "Can't do it before." "Very well!" she said, rather piqued. "Then we'll start on
Monday." She hated being thwarted even the tiniest bit. He knew that if he started with the pack on Sunday at dawn he
would not be back until late at night. But he consented that they
should start on Monday morning at seven. The obedient Miss
Cummins was told to prepare for the Frijoles trip. On Sunday
Romero had his day off. He had not put in an appearance when the
Princess retired on Sunday night, but on Monday morning, as she
was dressing, she saw him bringing in the three horses from the
corral. She was in high spirits. The night had been cold. There was ice at the edges of the
irrigation ditch, and the chipmunks crawled into the sun and lay
with wide, dumb, anxious eyes, almost too numb to run. "We may be away two or three days," said the Princess. "Very well. We won't begin to be anxious about you before
Thursday, then," said Mrs. Wilkieson, who was young and capable:
from Chicago. "Anyway," she added, "Romero will see you through.
He's so trustworthy." The sun was already on the desert as they set off towards the
mountains, making the greasewood and the sage pale as pale-grey
sands, luminous the great level around them. To the right glinted
the shadows of the adobe pueblo, flat and almost invisible on the
plain, earth of its earth. Behind lay the ranch and the tufts of
tall, plumy cottonwoods, whose summits were yellowing under the
perfect blue sky. Autumn breaking into colour in the great spaces of the
South-West. But the three trotted gently along the trail, towards the sun
that sparkled yellow just above the dark bulk of the ponderous
mountains. Side-slopes were already gleaming yellow, flaming with
a second light, under coldish blue of the pale sky. The front
slopes were in shadow, with submerged lustre of red oak scrub and
dull-gold aspens, blue-black pines and grey-blue rock. While the
canyon was full of a deep blueness. They rode single file, Romero first, on a black horse. Himself
in black, made a flickering black spot in the delicate pallor of
the great landscape, where even pine trees at a distance take a
film of blue paler than their green. Romero rode on in silence
past the tufts of furry greasewood. The Princess came next, on
her sorrel mare. And Miss Cummins, who was not quite happy on
horseback, came last, in the pale dust that the others kicked up.
Sometimes her horse sneezed, and she started. But on they went at a gentle trot. Romero never looked round.
He could hear the sound of the hoofs following, and that was all
he wanted. For the rest, he held ahead. And the Princess, with that
black, unheeding figure always travelling away from her, felt
strangely helpless, withal elated. They neared the pale, round foot-hills, dotted with the round
dark piñon and cedar shrubs. The horses clinked and
trotted among the stones. Occasionally a big round greasewood
held out fleecy tufts of flowers, pure gold. They wound into blue
shadow, then up a steep stony slope, with the world lying pallid
away behind and below. Then they dropped into the shadow of the
San Cristobal canyon. The stream was running full and swift. Occasionally the horses
snatched at a tuft of grass. The trail narrowed and became rocky;
the rocks closed in; it was dark and cool as the horses climbed
and climbed upwards, and the tree trunks crowded in the shadowy,
silent tightness of the canyon. They were among cottonwood trees
that ran straight up and smooth and round to an extraordinary
height. Above, the tips were gold, and it was sun. But away
below, where the horses struggled up the rocks and wound among
the trunks, there was still blue shadow by the sound of waters
and an occasional grey festoon of old man's beard, and here and
there a pale, dripping crane's-bill flower among the tangle and
the débris of the virgin place. And again the chill
entered the Princess's heart as she realised what a tangle of
decay and despair lay in the virgin forests. They scrambled downwards, splashed across stream, up rocks and
along the trail of the other side. Romero's black horse stopped,
looked down quizzically at the fallen trees, then stepped over
lightly. The Princess's sorrel followed, carefully. But Miss
Cummins's buckskin made a fuss, and had to be got round. In the same silence, save for the clinking of the horses and
the splashing as the trail crossed stream, they worked their way
upwards in the tight, tangled shadow of the canyon. Sometimes,
crossing stream, the Princess would glance upwards, and then
always her heart caught in her breast. For high up, away in
heaven, the mountain heights shone yellow, dappled with dark
spruce firs, clear almost as speckled daffodils against the pale
turquoise blue lying high and serene above the dark-blue shadow
where the Princess was. And she would snatch at the blood-red
leaves of the oak as her horse crossed a more open slope, not
knowing what she felt. They were getting fairly high, occasionally lifted above the
canyon itself, in the low groove below the speckled,
gold-sparkling heights which towered beyond. Then again they
dipped and crossed stream, the horses stepping gingerly across a
tangle of fallen, frail aspen stems, then suddenly floundering in
a mass of rocks. The black emerged ahead, his black tail waving.
The Princess let her mare find her own footing; then she too
emerged from the clatter. She rode on after the black. Then came
a great frantic rattle of the buckskin behind. The Princess was
aware of Romero's dark face looking round, with a strange,
demon-like watchfulness, before she herself looked round, to see
the buckskin scrambling rather lamely beyond the rocks, with one
of his pale buff knees already red with blood. "He almost went down!" called Miss Cummins. But Romero was already out of the saddle and hastening down
the path. He made quiet little noises to the buckskin, and began
examining the cut knee. "Is he hurt?" cried Miss Cummins anxiously, and she climbed
hastily down. "Oh, my goodness!" she cried, as she saw the blood running
down the slender buff leg of the horse in a thin trickle. "Isn't
that awful?" She spoke in a stricken voice, and her face
was white. Romero was still carefully feeling the knee of the buckskin.
Then he made him walk a few paces. And at last he stood up
straight and shook his head. "Not very bad!" he said. "Nothing broken." Again he bent and worked at the knees. Then he looked up at
the Princess. "He can go on," he said. "It's not bad." The Princess looked down at the dark face in silence. "What, go on right up here?" cried Miss Cummins. "How many
hours?" "About five!" said Romero simply. "Five hours!" cried Miss Cummins. "A horse with a lame knee!
And a steep mountain! Why-y!" "Yes, it's pretty steep up there," said Romero, pushing back
his hat and staring fixedly at the bleeding knee. The buckskin
stood in a stricken sort of dejection. "But I think he'll make it
all right," the man added. "Oh!" cried Miss Cummins, her eyes bright with sudden passion
of unshed tears. "I wouldn't think of it. I wouldn't ride him up
there, not for any money." "Why wouldn't you?" asked Romero. "It hurts him." Romero bent down again to the horse's knee. "Maybe it hurts him a little," he said. "But he can make it
all right, and his leg won't get stiff." "What! Ride him five hours up the steep mountains?" cried Miss
Cummins. "I couldn't. I just couldn't do it. I'll lead him a
little way and see if he can go. But I couldn't ride him
again. I couldn't. Let me walk." "But Miss Cummins, dear, if Romero says he'll be all right?"
said the Princess. "I know it hurts him. Oh, I just couldn't bear it." There was no doing anything with Miss Cummins. The thought of
a hurt animal always put her into a sort of hysterics. They walked forward a little, leading the buckskin. He limped
rather badly. Miss Cummins sat on a rock. "Why, it's agony to see him!" she cried. "It's
cruel!" "He won't limp after a bit, if you take no notice of him,"
said Romero. "Now he plays up, and limps very much, because he
wants to make you see." "I don't think there can be much playing up," said Miss
Cummins bitterly. "We can see how it must hurt him." "It don't hurt much," said Romero. But now Miss Cummins was silent with antipathy. It was a deadlock. The party remained motionless on the trail,
the Princess in the saddle, Miss Cummins seated on a rock, Romero
standing black and remote near the drooping buckskin. "Well!" said the man suddenly at last. "I guess we go back,
then." And he looked up swiftly at his horse, which was cropping at
the mountain herbage and treading on the trailing reins. "No!" cried the Princess. "Oh no!" Her voice rang with a great
wail of disappointment and anger. Then she checked herself. Miss Cummins rose with energy. "Let me lead the buckskin home," she said, with cold dignity,
"and you two go on." This was received in silence. The Princess was looking down at
her with a sardonic, almost cruel gaze. "We've only come about two hours," said Miss Cummins. "I don't
mind a bit leading him home. But I couldn't ride him. I
couldn't have him ridden with that knee." This again was received in dead silence. Romero remained
impassive, almost inert. "Very well, then," said the Princess. "You lead him home.
You'll be quite all right. Nothing can happen to you, possibly.
And say to them that we have gone on and shall be home
tomorrow--or the day after." She spoke coldly and distinctly. For she could not bear to be
thwarted. "Better all go back, and come again another day," said
Romero--non-committal. "There will never be another day," cried the Princess.
"I want to go on." She looked at him square in the eyes, and met the spark in his
eye. He raised his shoulders slightly. "If you want it," he said. "I'll go on with you. But Miss
Cummins can ride my horse to the end of the canyon, and I lead
the buckskin. Then I come back to you." It was arranged so. Miss Cummins had her saddle put on
Romero's black horse, Romero took the buckskin's bridle, and they
started back. The Princess rode very slowly on, upwards, alone.
She was at first so angry with Miss Cummins that she was blind to
everything else. She just let her mare follow her own
inclinations. The peculiar spell of anger carried the Princess on, almost
unconscious, for an hour or so. And by this time she was
beginning to climb pretty high. Her horse walked steadily all the
time. They emerged on a bare slope, and the trail wound through
frail aspen stems. Here a wind swept, and some of the aspens were
already bare. Others were fluttering their discs of pure, solid
yellow leaves, so nearly like petals, while the slope
ahead was one soft, glowing fleece of daffodil yellow; fleecy
like a golden foxskin, and yellow as daffodils alive in the wind
and the high mountain sun. She paused and looked back. The near great slopes were mottled
with gold and the dark hue of spruce, like some unsinged eagle,
and the light lay gleaming upon them. Away through the gap of the
canyon she could see the pale blue of the egg-like desert, with
the crumpled dark crack of the Rio Grande Canyon. And far, far
off, the blue mountains like a fence of angels on the
horizon. And she thought of her adventure. She was going on alone with
Romero. But then she was very sure of herself, and Romero was not
the kind of man to do anything to her against her will. This was
her first thought. And she just had a fixed desire to go over the
brim of the mountains, to look into the inner chaos of the
Rockies. And she wanted to go with Romero, because he had some
peculiar kinship with her; there was some peculiar link between
the two of them. Miss Cummins anyhow would have been only a
discordant note. She rode on, and emerged at length in the lap of the summit.
Beyond her was a great concave of stone and stark, dead-grey
trees, where the mountain ended against the sky. But nearer was
the dense black, bristling spruce, and at her feet was the lap of
the summit, a flat little valley of sere grass and quiet-standing
yellow aspens, the stream trickling like a thread across. It was a little valley or shell from which the stream was
gently poured into the lower rocks and trees of the canyon.
Around her was a fairy-like gentleness, the delicate sere grass,
the groves of delicate-stemmed aspens dropping their flakes of
bright yellow. And the delicate, quick little stream threading
through the wild, sere grass. Here one might expect deer and fawns and wild things, as in a
little paradise. Here she was to wait for Romero, and they were
to have lunch. She unfastened her saddle and pulled it to the ground with a
crash, letting her horse wander with a long rope. How beautiful
Tansy looked, sorrel, among the yellow leaves that lay like a
patina on the sere ground. The Princess herself wore a fleecy
sweater of a pale, sere buff, like the grass, and riding-breeches
of a pure orange-tawny colour. She felt quite in the picture. From her saddle-pouches she took the packages of lunch, spread
a little cloth, and sat to wait for Romero. Then she made a
little fire. Then she ate a devilled egg. Then she ran after
Tansy, who was straying across-stream. Then she sat in the sun,
in the stillness near the aspens, and waited. The sky was blue. Her little alp was soft and delicate as
fairy-land. But beyond and up jutted the great slopes, dark with
the pointed feathers of spruce, bristling with grey dead trees
among grey rock, or dappled with dark and gold. The beautiful,
but fierce, heavy cruel mountains, with their moments of
tenderness. She saw Tansy start, and begin to run. Two ghost-like figures
on horseback emerged from the black of the spruce across the
stream. It was two Indians on horseback, swathed like seated
mummies in their pale-grey cotton blankets. Their guns jutted
beyond the saddles. They rode straight towards her, to her thread
of smoke. As they came near, they unswathed themselves and greeted her,
looking at her curiously from their dark eyes. Their black hair
was somewhat untidy, the long rolled plaits on their shoulders
were soiled. They looked tired. They got down from their horses near her little fire--a camp
was a camp--swathed their blankets round their hips, pulled the
saddles from their ponies and turned them loose, then sat down.
One was a young Indian whom she had met before, the other was an
older man. "You all alone?" said the younger man. "Romero will be here in a minute," she said, glancing back
along the trail. "Ah, Romero! You with him? Where are you going?" "Round the ridge," she said. "Where are you going?" "We going down to Pueblo." "Been out hunting? How long have you been out?" "Yes. Been out five days." The young Indian gave a little
meaningless laugh. "Got anything?" "No. We see tracks of two deer--but not got nothing." The Princess noticed a suspicious-looking bulk under one of
the saddles--surely a folded-up deer. But she said nothing. "You must have been cold," she said. "Yes, very cold in the night. And hungry. Got nothing to eat
since yesterday. Eat it all up." And again he laughed his little
meaningless laugh. Under their dark skins, the two men looked
peaked and hungry. The Princess rummaged for food among the
saddle-bags. There was a lump of bacon--the regular
stand-back--and some bread. She gave them this, and they began
toasting slices of it on long sticks at the fire. Such was the
little camp Romero saw as he rode down the slope: the Princess in
her orange breeches, her head tied in a blue-and-brown silk
kerchief, sitting opposite the two dark-headed Indians across the
camp-fire, while one of the Indians was leaning forward toasting
bacon, his two plaits of braid-hair dangling as if wearily. Romero rode up, his face expressionless. The Indians greeted
him in Spanish. He unsaddled his horse, took food from the bags,
and sat down at the camp to eat. The Princess went to the stream
for water, and to wash her hands. "Got coffee?" asked the Indians. "No coffee this outfit," said Romero. They lingered an hour or more in the warm midday sun. Then
Romero saddled the horses. The Indians still squatted by the
fire. Romero and the Princess rode away, calling Adios! to
the Indians over the stream and into the dense spruce whence two
strange figures had emerged. When they were alone, Romero turned and looked at her
curiously, in a way she could not understand, with such a hard
glint in his eyes. And for the first time she wondered if she was
rash. "I hope you don't mind going alone with me," she said. "If you want it," he replied. They emerged at the foot of the great bare slope of rocky
summit, where dead spruce trees stood sparse and bristling like
bristles on a grey dead hog. Romero said the Mexicans, twenty
years back, had fired the mountains, to drive out the whites.
This grey concave slope of summit was corpse-like. The trail was almost invisible. Romero watched for the trees
which the Forest Service had blazed. And they climbed the stark
corpse slope, among dead spruce, fallen and ash-grey, into the
wind. The wind came rushing from the west, up the funnel of the
canyon, from the desert. And there was the desert, like a vast
mirage tilting slowly upwards towards the west, immense and
pallid, away beyond the funnel of the canyon. The Princess could
hardly look. For an hour their horses rushed the slope, hastening with a
great working of the haunches upwards, and halting to breathe,
scrambling again, and rowing their way up length by length, on
the livid, slanting wall. While the wind blew like some vast
machine. After an hour they were working their way on the incline, no
longer forcing straight up. All was grey and dead around them;
the horses picked their way over the silver-grey corpses of the
spruce. But they were near the top, near the ridge. Even the horses made a rush for the last bit. They had worked
round to a scrap of spruce forest near the very top. They hurried
in, out of the huge, monstrous, mechanical wind, that whistled
inhumanly and was palely cold. So, stepping through the dark
screen of trees, they emerged over the crest. In front now was nothing but mountains, ponderous, massive,
down-sitting mountains, in a huge and intricate knot, empty of
life or soul. Under the bristling black feathers of spruce
near-by lay patches of white snow. The lifeless valleys were
concaves of rock and spruce, the rounded summits and the
hog-backed summits of grey rock crowded one behind the other like
some monstrous herd in arrest. It frightened the Princess, it was so inhuman. She had
not thought it could be so inhuman, so, as it were, anti-life.
And yet now one of her desires was fulfilled. She had seen it,
the massive, gruesome, repellent core of the Rockies. She saw it
there beneath her eyes, in its gigantic, heavy gruesomeness. And she wanted to go back. At this moment she wanted to turn
back. She had looked down into the intestinal knot of these
mountains. She was frightened. She wanted to go back. But Romero was riding on, on the lee side of the spruce
forest, above the concaves of the inner mountains. He turned
round to her and pointed at the slope with a dark hand. "Here a miner has been trying for gold," he said. It was a
grey scratched-out heap near a hole--like a great badger hole.
And it looked quite fresh. "Quite lately?" said the Princess. "No, long ago--twenty, thirty years." He had reined in his
horse and was looking at the mountains. "Look!" he said. "There
goes the Forest Service trail--along those ridges, on the top,
way over there till it comes to Lucytown, where is the Goverment
road. We go down there--no trail--see behind that mountain--you
see the top, no trees, and some grass?" His arm was lifted, his brown hand pointing, his dark eyes
piercing into the distance, as he sat on his black horse twisting
round to her. Strange and ominous, only the demon of himself, he
seemed to her. She was dazed and a little sick, at that height,
and she could not see any more. Only she saw an eagle turning in
the air beyond, and the light from the west showed the pattern on
him underneath. "Shall I ever be able to go so far?" asked the Princess
faintly, petulantly. "Oh yes! All easy now. No more hard places." They worked along the ridge, up and down, keeping on the lee
side, the inner side, in the dark shadow. It was cold. Then the
trail laddered up again, and they emerged on a narrow
ridge-track, with the mountain slipping away enormously on either
side. The Princess was afraid. For one moment she looked out, and
saw the desert, the desert ridges, more desert, more blue ridges,
shining pale and very vast, far below, vastly palely tilting to
the western horizon. It was ethereal and terrifying in its
gleaming, pale, half-burnished immensity, tilted at the west. She
could not bear it. To the left was the ponderous, involved mass
of mountains all kneeling heavily. She closed her eyes and let her consciousness evaporate away.
The mare followed the trail. So on and on, in the wind again. They turned their backs to the wind, facing inwards to the
mountains. She thought they had left the trail; it was quite
invisible. "No," he said, lifting his hand and pointing. "Don't you see
the blazed trees?" And making an effort of consciousness, she was able to
perceive on a pale-grey dead spruce stem the old marks where an
axe had chipped a piece away. But with the height, the cold, the
wind, her brain was numb. They turned again and began to descend; he told her they had
left the trail. The horses slithered in the loose stones, picking
their way downward. It was afternoon, the sun stood obtrusive and
gleaming in the lower heavens--about four o'clock. The horses
went steadily, slowly, but obstinately onwards. The air was
getting colder. They were in among the lumpish peaks and steep
concave valleys. She was barely conscious at all of Romero. He dismounted and came to help her from her saddle. She
tottered, but would not betray her feebleness. "We must slide down here," he said. "I can lead the
horses." They were on a ridge, and facing a steep bare slope of pallid,
tawny mountain grass on which the western sun shone full. It was
steep and concave. The Princess felt she might start slipping,
and go down like a toboggan into the great hollow. But she pulled herself together. Her eye blazed up again with
excitement and determination. A wind rushed past her; she could
hear the shriek of spruce trees far below. Bright spots came on
her cheeks as her hair blew across. She looked a wild, fairy-like
little thing. "No," she said. "I will take my horse." "Then mind she doesn't slip down on top of you," said Romero.
And away he went, nimbly dropping down the pale, steep incline,
making from rock to rock, down the grass, and following any
little slanting groove. His horse hopped and slithered after him,
and sometimes stopped dead, with forefeet pressed back, refusing
to go farther. He, below his horse, looked up and pulled the
reins gently, and encouraged the creature. Then the horse once
more dropped his forefeet with a jerk, and the descent
continued. The Princess set off in blind, reckless pursuit, tottering and
yet nimble. And Romero, looking constantly back to see how she
was faring, saw her fluttering down like some queer little bird,
her orange breeches twinkling like the legs of some duck, and her
head, tied in the blue and buff kerchief, bound round and round
like the head of some blue-topped bird. The sorrel mare rocked
and slipped behind her. But down came the Princess in a reckless
intensity, a tiny, vivid spot on the great hollow flank of the
tawny mountain. So tiny! Tiny as a frail bird's egg. It made
Romero's mind go blank with wonder. But they had to get down, out of that cold and dragging wind.
The spruce trees stood below, where a tiny stream emerged in
stones. Away plunged Romero, zigzagging down. And away behind, up
the slope, fluttered the tiny, bright-coloured Princess, holding
the end of the long reins, and leading the lumbering,
four-footed, sliding mare. At last they were down. Romero sat in the sun, below the wind,
beside some squaw-berry bushes. The Princess came near, the
colour flaming in her cheeks, her eyes dark blue, much darker
than the kerchief on her head, and glowing unnaturally. "We make it," said Romero. "Yes," said the Princess, dropping the reins and subsiding on
to the grass, unable to speak, unable to think. But, thank heaven, they were out of the wind and in the
sun. In a few minutes her consciousness and her control began to
come back. She drank a little water. Romero was attending to the
saddles. Then they set off again, leading the horses still a
little farther down the tiny stream-bed. Then they could
mount. They rode down a bank and into a valley grove dense with
aspens. Winding through the thin, crowding, pale-smooth stems,
the sun shone flickering beyond them, and the disc-like aspen
leaves, waving queer mechanical signals, seemed to be splashing
the gold light before her eyes. She rode on in a splashing dazzle
of gold. Then they entered shadow and the dark, resinous spruce trees.
The fierce boughs always wanted to sweep her off her horse. She
had to twist and squirm past. But there was a semblance of an old trail. And all at once
they emerged in the sun on the edge of the spruce grove, and
there was a little cabin, and the bottom of a small, naked valley
with grey rock and heaps of stones, and a round pool of intense
green water, dark green. The sun was just about to leave it. Indeed, as she stood, the shadow came over the cabin and over
herself; they were in the lower gloom, a twilight. Above, the
heights still blazed. It was a little hole of a cabin, near the spruce trees, with
an earthen floor and an unhinged door. There was a wooden
bed-bunk, three old sawn-off log-lengths to sit on as stools, and
a sort of fireplace; no room for anything else. The little hole
would hardly contain two people. The roof had gone--but Romero
had laid on thick spruce boughs. The strange squalor of the primitive forest pervaded the
place, the squalor of animals and their droppings, the squalor of
the wild. The Princess knew the peculiar repulsiveness of it. She
was tired and faint. Romero hastily got a handful of twigs, set a little fire going
in the stove grate, and went out to attend to the horses. The
Princess vaguely, mechanically, put sticks on the fire, in a sort
of stupor, watching the blaze, stupefied and fascinated. She
could not make much fire--it would set the whole cabin alight.
And smoke oozed out of the dilapidated mud-and-stone chimney. When Romero came in with the saddle-pouches and saddles,
hanging the saddles on the wall, there sat the little Princess on
her stump of wood in front of the dilapidated fire-grate, warming
her tiny hands at the blaze, while her oranges breeches glowed
almost like another fire. She was in a sort of stupor. "You have some whisky now, or some tea? Or wait for some
soup?" he asked. She rose and looked at him with bright, dazed eyes, half
comprehending; the colour glowing hectic in her cheeks. "Some tea," she said, "with a little whisky in it. Where's the
kettle?" "Wait," he said. "I'll bring the things." She took her cloak from the back of her saddle, and followed
him into the open. It was a deep cup of shadow. But above the sky
was still shining, and the heights of the mountains were blazing
with aspen like fire blazing. Their horses were cropping the grass among the stones. Romero
clambered up a heap of grey stones and began lifting away logs
and rocks, till he had opened the mouth of one of the miner's
little old workings. This was his cache. He brought out bundles
of blankets, pans for cooking, a little petrol camp-stove, an
axe, the regular camp outfit. He seemed so quick and energetic
and full of force. This quick force dismayed the Princess a
little. She took a saucepan and went down the stones to the water. It
was very still and mysterious, and of a deep green colour, yet
pure, transparent as glass. How cold the place was! How
mysterious and fearful. She crouched in her dark cloak by the water, rinsing the
saucepan, feeling the cold heavy above her, the shadow like a
vast weight upon her, bowing her down. The sun was leaving the
mountain-tops, departing, leaving her under profound shadow. Soon
it would crush her down completely. Sparks? Or eyes looking at her across the water? She gazed,
hypnotised. And with her sharp eyes she made out in the dusk the
pale form of a bob-cat crouching by the water's edge, pale as the
stones among which it crouched, opposite. And it was watching her
with cold, electric eyes of strange intentness, a sort of cold,
icy wonder and fearlessness. She saw its museau pushed
forward, its tufted ears pricking intensely up. It was watching
her with cold, animal curiosity, something demonish and
conscienceless. She made a swift movement, spilling her water. And in a flash
the creature was gone, leaping like a cat that is escaping; but
strange and soft in its motion, with its little bob-tail. Rather
fascinating. Yet that cold, intent, demonish watching! She
shivered with cold and fear. She knew well enough the dread and
repulsiveness of the wild. Romero carried in the bundles of bedding and the camp outfit.
The windowless cabin was already dark inside. He lit a lantern,
and then went out again with the axe. She heard him chopping wood
as she fed sticks to the fire under her water. When he came in
with an armful of oak-scrub faggots, she had just thrown the tea
into the water. "Sit down," she said, "and drink tea." He poured a little bootleg whisky into the enamel cups, and in
the silence the two sat on the log-ends, sipping the hot liquid
and coughing occasionally from the smoke. "We burn these oak sticks," he said. "They don't make hardly
any smoke." Curious and remote he was, saying nothing except what had to
be said. And she, for her part, was as remote from him. They
seemed far, far apart, worlds apart, now they were so near. He unwrapped one bundle of bedding, and spread the blankets
and the sheepskin in the wooden bunk. "You lie down and rest," he said, "and I make the supper." She decided to do so. Wrapping her cloak round her, she lay
down in the bunk, turning her face to the wall. She could hear
him preparing supper over the little petrol stove. Soon she could
smell the soup he was heating; and soon she heard the hissing of
fried chicken in a pan. "You eat your supper now?" he said. With a jerky, despairing movement, she sat up in the bunk,
tossing back her hair. She felt cornered. "Give it me here," she said. He handed her first the cupful of soup. She sat among the
blankets, eating it slowly. She was hungry. Then he gave her an
enamel plate with pieces of fried chicken and currant jelly,
butter and bread. It was very good. As they ate the chicken he
made the coffee. She said never a word. A certain resentment
filled her. She was cornered. When supper was over he washed the dishes, dried them, and put
everything away carefully, else there would have been no room to
move in the hole of a cabin. The oak-wood gave out a good bright
heat. He stood for a few moments at a loss. Then he asked her: "You want to go to bed soon?" "Soon," she said. "Where are you going to sleep?" "I make my bed here--" he pointed to the floor along the wall.
"Too cold out of doors." "Yes," she said. "I suppose it is." She sat immobile, her cheeks hot, full of conflicting
thoughts. And she watched him while he folded the blankets on the
floor, a sheepskin underneath. Then she went out into night. The stars were big. Mars sat on the edge of a mountain, for
all the world like the blazing eye of a crouching mountain lion.
But she herself was deep, deep below in a pit of shadow. In the
intense silence she seemed to hear the spruce forest crackling
with electricity and cold. Strange, foreign stars floated on that
unmoving water. The night was going to freeze. Over the hills
came the far sobbing-singing howling of the coyotes. She wondered
how the horses would be. Shuddering a little, she turned to the cabin. Warm light
showed through its chinks. She pushed at the rickety, half-opened
door. "What about the horses?" she said. "My black, he won't go away. And your mare will stay with him.
You want to go to bed now?" "I think I do." "All right. I feed the horses some oats." And he went out into the night. He did not come back for some time. She was lying wrapped up
tight in the bunk. He blew out the lantern, and sat down on his bedding to take
off his clothes. She lay with her back turned. And soon, in the
silence, she was asleep. She dreamed it was snowing, and the snow was falling on her
through the roof, softly, softly, helplessly, and she was going
to be buried alive. She was growing colder and colder, the snow
was weighing down on her. The snow was going to absorb her. She awoke with a sudden convulsion, like pain. She was really
very cold; perhaps the heavy blankets had numbed her. Her heart
seemed unable to beat, she felt she could not move. With another convulsion she sat up. It was intensely dark.
There was not even a spark of fire, the light wood had burned
right away. She sat in thick oblivious darkness. Only through a
chink she could see a star. What did she want? Oh, what did she want? She sat in bed and
rocked herself woefully. She could hear the steady breathing of
the sleeping man. She was shivering with cold; her heart seemed
as if it could not beat. She wanted warmth, protection, she
wanted to be taken away from herself. And at the same time,
perhaps more deeply than anything, she wanted to keep herself
intact, intact, untouched, that no one should have any power over
her, or rights to her. It was a wild necessity in her that no
one, particularly no man, should have any rights or power over
her, that no one and nothing should possess her. Yet that other thing! And she was so cold, so shivering, and
her heart could not beat. Oh, would not someone help her heart to
beat? She tried to speak, and could not. Then she cleared her
throat. "Romero," she said strangely, "it is so cold." Where did her voice come from, and whose voice was it, in the
dark? She heard him at once sit up, and his voice, startled, with a
resonance that seemed to vibrate against her, saying: "You want me to make you warm?" "Yes." As soon as he had lifted her in his arms, she wanted to scream
to him not to touch her. She stiffened herself. Yet she was
dumb. And he was warm, but with a terrible animal warmth that seemed
to annihilate her. He panted like an animal with desire. And she
was given over to this thing. She had never, never wanted to be given over to this. But she
had willed that it should happen to her. And according to
her will, she lay and let it happen. But she never wanted it. She
never wanted to be thus assailed and handled, and mauled. She
wanted to keep herself to herself. However, she had willed it to happen, and it had happened. She
panted with relief when it was over. Yet even now she had to lie within the hard, powerful clasp of
this other creature, this man. She dreaded to struggle to go
away. She dreaded almost too much the icy cold of that other
bunk. "Do you want to go away from me?" asked his strange voice. Oh,
if it could only have been a thousand miles away from her! Yet
she had willed to have it thus close. "No," she said. And she could feel a curious joy and pride surging up again in
him: at her expense. Because he had got her. She felt like a
victim there. And he was exulting in his power over her, his
possession, his pleasure. When dawn came, he was fast asleep. She sat up suddenly. "I want a fire," she said. He opened his brown eyes wide, and smiled with a curious
tender luxuriousness. "I want you to make a fire," she said. He glanced at the chinks of light. His brown face hardened to
the day. "All right," he said. "I'll make it." She did her face while he dressed. She could not bear to look
at him. He was so suffused with pride and luxury. She hid her
face almost in despair. But feeling the cold blast of air as he
opened the door, she wriggled down into the warm place where he
had been. How soon the warmth ebbed, when he had gone! He made a fire and went out, returning after a while with
water. "You stay in bed till the sun comes," he said. "It very
cold." "Hand me my cloak." She wrapped the cloak fast round her, and sat up among the
blankets. The warmth was already spreading from the fire. "I suppose we will start back as soon as we've had
breakfast?" He was crouching at his camp-stove making scrambled eggs. He
looked up suddenly, transfixed, and his brown eyes, so soft and
luxuriously widened, looked straight at her. "You want to?" he said. "We'd better get back as soon as possible," she said, turning
aside from his eyes. "You want to get away from me?" he asked, repeating the
question of the night in a sort of dread. "I want to get away from here," she said decisively. And it
was true. She wanted supremely to get away, back to the world of
people. He rose slowly to his feet, holding the aluminium
frying-pan. "Don't you like last night?" he asked. "Not really," she said. "Why? Do you?" He put down the frying-pan and stood staring at the wall. She
could see she had given him a cruel blow. But she did not relent.
She was getting her own back. She wanted to regain possession of
all herself, and in some mysterious way she felt that he
possessed some part of her still. He looked round at her slowly, his face greyish and heavy. "You Americans," he said, "you always want to do a man
down." "I am not American," she said. "I am British. And I don't want
to do any man down. I only want to go back now." "And what will you say about me, down there?" "That you were very kind to me, and very good." He crouched down again, and went on turning the eggs. He gave
her her plate, and her coffee, and sat down to his own food. But again he seemed not to be able to swallow. He looked up at
her. "You don't like last night?" he asked. "Not really," she said, though with some difficulty. "I don't
care for that kind of thing." A blank sort of wonder spread over his face at these words,
followed immediately by a black look of anger, and then a stony,
sinister despair. "You don't?" he said, looking her in the eyes. "Not really," she replied, looking back with steady hostility
into his eyes. Then a dark flame seemed to come from his face. "I make you," he said, as if to himself. He rose and reached her clothes, that hung on a peg: the fine
linen underwear, the orange breeches, the fleecy jumper, the
blue-and-bluff kerchief; then he took up her riding-boots and her
bead moccasins. Crushing everything in his arms, he opened the
door. Sitting up, she saw him stride down to the dark-green pool
in the frozen shadow of that deep cup of a valley. He tossed the
clothing and the boots out on the pool. Ice had formed. And on
the pure, dark green mirror, in the slaty shadow, the Princess
saw her things lying, the white linen, the orange breeches, the
black boots, the blue moccasins, a tangled heap of colour. Romero
picked up rocks and heaved them out at the ice, till the surface
broke and the fluttering clothing disappeared in the rattling
water, while the valley echoed and shouted again with the
sound. She sat in despair among the blankets, hugging tight her
pale-blue cloak. Romero strode straight back to the cabin. "Now you stay here with me," he said. She was furious. Her blue eyes met his. They were like two
demons watching one another. In his face, beyond a sort of
unrelieved gloom, was a demonish desire for death. He saw her looking round the cabin, scheming. He saw her eyes
on his rifle. He took the gun and went out with it. Returning, he
pulled out her saddle, carried it to the tarn, and threw it in.
Then he fetched his own saddle, and did the same. "Now will you go away?" he said, looking at her with a
smile. She debated within herself whether to coax him and wheedle
him. But she knew he was already beyond it. She sat among her
blankets in a frozen sort of despair, hard as hard ice with
anger. He did the chores, and disappeared with the gun. She got up in
her blue pyjamas, huddled in her cloak, and stood in the doorway.
The dark-green pool was motionless again, the stony slopes were
pallid and frozen. Shadow still lay, like an after-death, deep in
this valley. Always in the distance she saw the horses feeding.
If she could catch one! The brilliant yellow sun was half-way
down the mountain. It was nine o'clock. All day she was alone, and she was frightened. What she was
frightened of she didn't know. Perhaps the crackling in the dark
spruce wood. Perhaps just the savage, heartless wildness of the
mountains. But all day she sat in the sun in the doorway of the
cabin, watching, watching for hope. And all the time her bowels
were cramped with fear. She saw a dark spot that probably was a bear, roving across
the pale grassy slope in the far distance, in the sun. When, in the afternoon, she saw Romero approaching, with
silent suddenness, carrying his gun and a dead deer, the cramp in
her bowels relaxed, then became colder. She dreaded him with a
cold dread. "There is deer-meat," he said, throwing the dead doe at her
feet. "You don't want to go away from here," he said. "This is a
nice place." She shrank into the cabin. "Come into the sun," he said, following her. She looked up at
him with hostile, frightened eyes. "Come into the sun," he repeated, taking her gently by the
arm, in a powerful grasp. She knew it was useless to rebel. Quietly he led her out, and
seated himself in the doorway, holding her still by the arm. "In the sun it is warm," he said. "Look, this is a nice place.
You are such a pretty white woman, why do you want to act mean to
me? Isn't this a nice place? Come! Come here! It is sure warm
here." He drew her to him, and in spite of her stony resistance, he
took her cloak from her, holding her in her thin blue
pyjamas. "You sure are a pretty little white woman, small and pretty,"
he said. "You sure won't act mean to me--you don't want to, I
know you don't." She, stony and powerless, had to submit to him. The sun shone
on her white, delicate skin. "I sure don't mind hell fire," he said. "After this." A queer, luxurious good humour seemed to possess him again.
But though outwardly she was powerless, inwardly she resisted
him, absolutely and stonily. When later he was leaving her again, she said to him
suddenly: "You think you can conquer me this way. But you can't. You can
never conquer me." He stood arrested, looking back at her, with many emotions
conflicting in his face--wonder, surprise, a touch of horror, and
an unconscious pain that crumpled his face till it was like a
mask. Then he went out without saying a word, hung the dead deer
on a bough, and started to flay it. While he was at this
butcher's work, the sun sank and cold night came on again. "You see," he said to her as he crouched, cooking the supper,
"I ain't going to let you go. I reckon you called to me in the
night, and I've some right. If you want to fix it up right now
with me, and say you want to be with me, we'll fix it up now and
go down to the ranch to-morrow and get married or whatever you
want. But you've got to say you want to be with me. Else I shall
stay right here, till something happens." She waited a while before she answered: "I don't want to be with anybody against my will. I don't
dislike you; at least, I didn't, till you tried to put your will
over mine. I won't have anybody's will put over me. You can't
succeed. Nobody could. You can never get me under your will. And
you won't have long to try, because soon they will send someone
to look for me." He pondered this last, and she regretted having said it. Then,
sombre, he bent to the cooking again. He could not conquer her, however much he violated her.
Because her spirit was hard and flawless as a diamond. But he
could shatter her. This she knew. Much more, and she would be
shattered. In a sombre, violent excess he tried to expend his desire for
her. And she was racked with an agony, and felt each time she
would die. Because, in some peculiar way, he had got hold of her,
some unrealised part of her which she never wished to realise.
Racked with a burning, tearing anguish, she felt that the thread
of her being would break, and she would die. The burning heat
that racked her inwardly. If only, only she could be alone again, cool and intact! If
only she could recover herself again, cool and intact! Would she
ever, ever, ever be able to bear herself again? Even now she did not hate him. It was beyond that. Like some
racking, hot doom. Personally he hardly existed. The next day he would not let her have any fire, because of
attracting attention with the smoke. It was a grey day, and she
was cold. He stayed round, and heated soup on the petrol stove.
She lay motionless in the blankets. And in the afternoon she pulled the clothes over her head and
broke into tears. She had never really cried in her life. He
dragged the blankets away and looked to see what was shaking her.
She sobbed in helpless hysterics. He covered her over again and
went outside, looking at the mountains, where clouds were
dragging and leaving a little snow. It was a violent, windy,
horrible day, the evil of winter rushing down. She cried for hours. And after this a great silence came
between them. They were two people who had died. He did not touch
her any more. In the night she lay and shivered like a dying dog.
She felt that her very shivering would rupture something in her
body, and she would die. At last she had to speak. "Could you make a fire? I am so cold," she said, with
chattering teeth. "Want to come over here?" came his voice. "I would rather you made me a fire," she said, her teeth
knocking together and chopping the words in two. He got up and kindled a fire. At last the warmth spread, and
she could sleep. The next day was still chilly, with some wind. But the sun
shone. He went about in silence, with a dead-looking face. It was
now so dreary and so like death she wished he would do anything
rather than continue in this negation. If now he asked her to go
down with him to the world and marry him, she would do it. What
did it matter? Nothing mattered any more. But he would not ask her. His desire was dead and heavy like
ice within him. He kept watch around the house. On the fourth day as she sat huddled in the doorway in the
sun, hugged in a blanket, she saw two horsemen come over the
crest of the grassy slope--small figures. She gave a cry. He
looked up quickly and saw the figures. The men had dismounted.
They were looking for the trail. "They are looking for me," she said. "Muy bien," he answered in Spanish. He went and fetched his gun, and sat with it across his
knees. "Oh!" she said. "Don't shoot!" He looked across at her. "Why?" he said. "You like staying with me?" "No," she said. "But don't shoot." "I ain't going to Pen," he said. "You won't have to go to Pen," she said. "Don't shoot!" "I'm going to shoot," he muttered. And straightaway he kneeled and took very careful aim. The
Princess sat on in an agony of helplessness and hopelessness. The shot rang out. In an instant she saw one of the horses on
the pale grassy slope rear and go rolling down. The man had
dropped in the grass, and was invisible. The second man clambered
on his horse, and on that precipitous place went at a gallop in a
long swerve towards the nearest spruce tree cover. Bang! Bang!
went Romero's shots. But each time he missed, and the running
horse leaped like a kangaroo towards cover. It was hidden. Romero now got behind a rock; tense silence, in
the brilliant sunshine. The Princess sat on the bunk inside the
cabin, crouching, paralysed. For hours, it seemed, Romero knelt
behind this rock, in his black shirt, bare-headed, watching. He
had a beautiful, alert figure. The Princess wondered why she did
not feel sorry for him. But her spirit was hard and cold, her
heart could not melt. Though now she would have called him to
her, with love. But no, she did not love him. She would never love any man.
Never! It was fixed and sealed in her, almost vindictively. Suddenly she was so startled she almost fell from the bunk. A
shot rang out quite close from behind the cabin. Romero leaped
straight into the air, his arms fell outstretched, turning as he
leaped. And even while he was in the air, a second shot rang out,
and he fell with a crash, squirming, his hands clutching the
earth towards the cabin door. The Princess sat absolutely motionless, transfixed, staring at
the prostrate figure. In a few moments the figure of a man in the
Forest Service appeared close to the house; a young man in a
broad-brimmed Stetson hat, dark flannel shirt, and riding-boots,
carrying a gun. He strode over to the prostrate figure. "Got you, Romero!" he said aloud. And he turned the dead man
over. There was already a little pool of blood where Romero's
breast had been. "H'm!" said the Forest Service man. "Guess I got you nearer
than I thought." And he squatted there, staring at the dead man. The distant calling of his comrade aroused him. He stood
up. "Hullo, Bill!" he shouted. "Yep! Got him! Yep! Done him in,
apparently." The second man rode out of the forest on a grey horse. He had
a ruddy, kind face, and round brown eyes, dilated with
dismay. "He's not passed out?" he asked anxiously. "Looks like it," said the first young man coolly. The second dismounted and bent over the body. Then he stood up
again, and nodded. "Yea-a!" he said. "He's done in all right. It's him all right,
boy! It's Domingo Romero." "Yep! I know it!" replied the other. Then in perplexity he turned and looked into the cabin, where
the Princess squatted, staring with big owl eyes from her red
blanket. "Hello!" he said, coming towards the hut. And he took his hat
off. Oh, the sense of ridicule she felt! Though he did not mean
any. But she could not speak, no matter what she felt. "What'd this man start firing for?" he asked. She fumbled for words, with numb lips. "He had gone out of his mind!" she said, with solemn,
stammering conviction. "Good Lord! You mean to say he'd gone out of his mind? Whew!
That's pretty awful! That explains it then. H'm!" He accepted the explanation without more ado. With some difficulty they succeeded in getting the Princess
down to the ranch. But she, too, was not a little mad. "I'm not quite sure where I am," she said to Mrs. Wilkieson,
as she lay in bed. "Do you mind explaining?" Mrs. Wilkieson explained tactfully. "Oh yes!" said the Princess. "I remember. And I had an
accident in the mountains, didn't I? Didn't we meet a man who'd
gone mad, and who shot my horse from under me?" "Yes, you met a man who had gone out of his mind." The real affair was hushed up. The Princess departed east in a
fortnight's time, in Miss Cummins's care. Apparently she had
recovered herself entirely. She was the Princess, and a virgin
intact. But her bobbed hair was grey at the temples, and her eyes were
a little mad. She was slightly crazy. "Since my accident in the mountains, when a man went mad and
shot my horse from under me, and my guide had to shoot him dead,
I have never felt quite myself." So she put it. Later, she married an elderly man, and seemed pleased.</story>