<story title="THINGS" date="1928">
They were true idealists, from New England. But that is some
time ago: before the War. Several years before the War they met
and married; he a tall, keen-eyed young man from Connecticut, she
a smallish, demure, Puritan-looking young woman from
Massachusetts. They both had a little money. Not much, however.
Even added together it didn't make three thousand dollars a year.
Still--they were free. Free! Ah!--freedom! To be free to live one's own life! To be
twenty-five and twenty-seven, a pair of true idealists with a
mutual love of beauty and an inclination towards "Indian
thought"--meaning, alas! Mrs Besant--and an income a little under
three thousand dollars a year! But what is money? All one wishes
to do is to live a full and beautiful life. In Europe, of course,
right at the fountain-head of tradition. It might possibly be
done in America: in New England, for example. But at forfeiture
of a certain amount of "beauty". True beauty takes a long time to
mature. The baroque is only half-beautiful, half-matured. No, the
real silver bloom, the real golden-sweet bouquet of beauty, had
its roots in the Renaissance, not in any later or shallower
period. Therefore, the two idealists, who were married in New Haven,
sailed at once to Paris: Paris of the old days. They had a studio
apartment on the Boulevard Montparnasse, and they became real
Parisians, in the old, delightful sense, not in the modern,
vulgar. It was the shimmer of the pure impressionists, Monet and
his followers, the world seen in terms of pure light, light
broken and unbroken. How lovely! How lovely! how lovely the
nights, the river, the mornings in the old streets and by the
flower-stalls and the book-stalls, the afternoons up on
Montmartre or in the Tuileries, the evenings on the
boulevards! They both painted, but not desperately. Art had not taken them
by the throat, and they did not take Art by the throat. They
painted: that's all. They knew people--nice people, if possible,
though one had to take them mixed. And they were happy. Yet it seems as if human beings must set their claws in
something. To be "free", to be "living a full and
beautiful life", you must, alas! be attached to something. A
"full and beautiful life" means a tight attachment to
something--at least, it is so for all idealists--or else a
certain boredom supervenes; there is a certain waving of loose
ends upon the air, like the waving, yearning tendrils of the vine
that spread and rotate, seeking something to clutch, something up
which to climb towards the necessary sun. Finding nothing, the
vine can only trail, half-fulfilled, upon the ground. Such is
freedom--a clutching of the right pole. And human beings are all
vines. But especially the idealist. He is a vine, and he needs to
clutch and climb. And he despises the man who is a mere
potato, or turnip, or lump of wood. Our idealists were frightfully happy, but they were all the
time reaching out for something to cotton on to. At first, Paris
was enough. They explored Paris thoroughly. And they
learned French till they almost felt like French people, they
could speak it so glibly. Still, you know, you never talk French with your soul.
It can't be done. And though it's very thrilling, at first,
talking in French to clever Frenchmen--they seem so much
cleverer than oneself--still, in the long run, it is not
satisfying. The endlessly clever materialism of the French
leaves you cold, in the end, gives a sense of barrenness and
incompatibility with true New England depth. So our two idealists
felt. They turned away from France--but ever so gently. France had
disappointed them. "We've loved it, and we've got a great deal
out of it. But after a while, a considerable while--several
years, in fact--Paris leaves one feeling disappointed. It hasn't
quite got what one wants." "But Paris isn't France." "No, perhaps not. France is quite different from Paris. And
France is lovely--quite lovely. But to us, though we love
it, it doesn't say a great deal." So, when the War came, the idealists moved to Italy. And they
loved Italy. They found it beautiful, and more poignant than
France. It seemed much nearer to the New England conception of
beauty: something pure, and full of sympathy, without the
materialism and the cynicism of the French. The two
idealists seemed to breathe their own true air in Italy. And in Italy, much more than in Paris, they felt they could
thrill to the teachings of the Buddha. They entered the swelling
stream of modern Buddhistic emotion, and they read the books, and
they practised meditation, and they deliberately set themselves
to eliminate from their own souls greed, pain, and sorrow. They
did not realise--yet--that Buddha's very eagerness to free
himself from pain and sorrow is in itself a sort of greed. No,
they dreamed of a perfect world, from which all greed, and nearly
all pain, and a great deal of sorrow, were eliminated. But America entered the War, so the two idealists had to help.
They did hospital work. And though their experience made them
realise more than ever that greed, pain, and sorrow should
be eliminated from the world, nevertheless, the Buddhism, or the
theosophy, didn't emerge very triumphant from the long crisis.
Somehow, somewhere, in some part of themselves, they felt that
greed, pain and sorrow would never be eliminated, because most
people don't care about eliminating them, and never will care.
Our idealists were far too Western to think of abandoning all the
world to damnation while they saved their two selves. They were
far too unselfish to sit tight under a bho-tree and reach Nirvana
in a mere couple. It was more than that, though. They simply hadn't enough
Sitzfleisch to squat under a bho-tree and get to Nirvana
by contemplating anything, least of all their own navel. If the
whole wide world was not going to be saved, they, personally,
were not so very keen on being saved just by themselves. No, it
would be so lonesome. They were New Englanders, so it must be all
or nothing. Greed, pain and sorrow must either be eliminated
from all the world,or else what was the use of eliminating
them from oneself? No use at all! One was just a victim. And so--although they still loved "Indian thought", and
felt very tender about it: well, to go back to our metaphor, the
pole up which the green and anxious vines had clambered so far
now proved dry-rotten. It snapped, and the vines came slowly
subsiding to earth again. There was no crack and crash. The vines
held themselves up by their own foliage, for a while. But they
subsided. The beanstalk of "Indian thought" had given way before
Jack had climbed off the tip of it to a further world. They subsided with a slow rustle back to earth again. But they
made no outcry. They were again "disappointed". But they never
admitted it. "Indian thought" had let them down. But they never
complained. Even to one another they never said a word. But they
were disappointed, faintly but deeply disillusioned, and they
both knew it. But the knowledge was tacit. And they still had so much in their lives. They still had
Italy--dear Italy. And they still had freedom, the priceless
treasure. And they still had so much "beauty". About the fullness
of their lives they were not quite so sure. They had one little
boy, whom they loved as parents should love their children, but
whom they wisely refrained from fastening upon, to build their
lives on him. No, no, they must live their own lives! They still
had strength of mind to know that. But they were now no longer so very young. Twenty-five and
twenty-seven had become thirty-five and thirty-seven. And though
they had had a very wonderful time in Europe, and though they
still loved Italy--dear Italy!--yet: they were disappointed. They
had got a lot out of it: oh, a very great deal indeed! Still, it
hadn't given them quite, not quite, what they had
expected; Europe was lovely, but it was dead. Living in Europe,
you were living on the past. And Europeans, with all their
superficial charm, were not really charming. They were
materialistic, they had no real soul. They just did not
understand the inner urge of the spirit, because the inner urge
was dead in them; they were all survivals. There, that was the
truth about Europeans: they were survivals, with no more getting
ahead in them. It was another bean-pole, another vine-support crumbled under
the green life of the vine. And very bitter it was, this time.
For up the old tree-trunk of Europe the green vine had been
clambering silently for more than ten years, ten hugely important
years, the years of real living. The two idealists had
lived in Europe, lived on Europe and on European life and
European things as vines in an everlasting vineyard. They had made their home here: a home such as you could never
make in America. Their watchword had been "beauty". They had
rented, the last four years, the second floor of an old Palazzo
on the Arno, and here they had all their "things". And they
derived a profound satisfaction from their apartment: the lofty,
silent, ancient rooms with windows on the river, with glistening,
dark-red floors, and the beautiful furniture that the idealists
had "picked up". Yes, unknown to themselves, the lives of the idealists had
been running with a fierce swiftness horizontally, all the time.
They had become tense, fierce hunters of "things" for their home.
While their soul was climbing up to the sun of old European
culture or old Indian thought, their passions were running
horizontally, clutching at "things". Of course, they did not buy
the things for the things' sakes, but for the sake of "beauty".
They looked upon their home as a place entirely furnished by
loveliness, not by "things" at all. Valerie had some very lovely
curtains at the windows of the long salotto, looking on
the river: curtains of queer ancient material that looked like
finely knitted silk, most beautifully faded down from vermilion
and orange and gold and black, to a sheer soft glow. Valerie
hardly ever came into the salotto without mentally falling
on her knees before the curtains. "Chartres!" she said. "To me
they are Chartres!" And Melville never turned and looked at his
sixteenth-century Venetian book-case, with its two or three dozen
of choice books, without feeling his marrow stir in his bones.
The holy of holies! The child silently, almost sinisterly, avoided any rude
contact with these ancient monuments of furniture, as if they had
been nests of sleeping cobras, or that "thing" most perilous to
the touch--the Ark of the Covenant. His childish awe was silent,
and cold, but final. Still, a couple of New England idealists cannot live merely on
the bygone glory of their furniture. At least, one couple could
not. They got used to the marvellous Bologna cupboard, they got
used to the wonderful Venetian book-case, and the books, and the
Siena curtains and bronzes, and the lovely sofas and side-tables
and chairs they had "picked up" in Paris. Oh, they had been
picking things up since the first day they landed in Europe. And
they were still at it. It is the last interest Europe can offer
to an outsider: or to an insider either. When people came, and were thrilled by the Melville interior,
then Valerie and Erasmus felt they had not lived in vain: that
they still were living. But in the long mornings, when Erasmus
was desultorily working at Renaissance Florentine literature, and
Valerie was attending to the apartment; and in the long hours
after lunch; and in the long, usually very cold and oppressive
evenings in the ancient palazzo: then the halo died from around
the furniture, and the things became things, lumps of matter that
just stood there or hung there, ad infinitum, and said
nothing; and Valerie and Erasmus almost hated them. The glow of
beauty, like every other glow, dies down unless it is fed. The
idealists still dearly loved their things. But they had got them.
And the sad fact is, things that glow vividly while you're
getting them go almost quite cold after a year or two. Unless, of
course, people envy you them very much, and the museums are
pining for them. And the Melvilles' "things", though very good,
were not quite as good as that. So the glow gradually went out of everything, out of Europe,
out of Italy--"the Italians are dears"--even out of that
marvellous apartment on the Arno. "Why, if I had this apartment
I'd never, never even want to go out of doors! It's too lovely
and perfect." That was something, of course, to hear that. And yet Valerie and Erasmus went out of doors; they even went
out to get away from its ancient, cold-floored, stone-heavy
silence and dead dignity. "We're living on the past, you know,
Dick," said Valerie to her husband. She called him Dick. They were grimly hanging on. They did not like to give in.
They did not like to own up that they were through. For twelve
years, now, they had been "free" people, living a "full and
beautiful life". And America for twelve years had been their
anathema, the Sodom and Gomorrah of industrial materialism. It wasn't easy to own that you were "through". They hated to
admit that they wanted to go back. But at last, reluctantly, they
decided to go, "for the boy's sake". "We can't bear to
leave Europe. But Peter is an American, so he had better look at
America while he's young." The Melvilles had an entirely English
accent and manner--almost--a little Italian and French here and
there. They left Europe behind, but they took as much of it along
with them as possible. Several van-loads, as a matter of fact.
All those adorable and irreplaceable "things". And all arrived in
New York, idealists, child, and the huge bulk of Europe they had
lugged along. Valerie had dreamed of a pleasant apartment, perhaps on
Riverside Drive, where it was not so expensive as east of Fifth
Avenue, and where all their wonderful things would look
marvellous. She and Erasmus house-hunted. But, alas! their income
was quite under three thousand dollars a year. They found--well,
everybody knows what they found. Two small rooms and a
kitchenette, and don't let us unpack a thing! The chunk of Europe which they had bitten off went into a
warehouse, at fifty dollars a month. And they sat in two small
rooms and a kitchenette, and wondered why they'd done it. Erasmus, of course, ought to get a job. This was what was
written on the wall, and what they both pretended not to see. But
it had been the strange, vague threat that the Statue of Liberty
had always held over them: "Thou shalt get a job!" Erasmus had
the tickets, as they say. A scholastic career was still possible
for him. He had taken his exams, brilliantly at Yale, and had
kept up his "researches" all the time he had been in Europe. But both he and Valerie shuddered. A scholastic career! The
scholastic world! The American scholastic world! Shudder
upon shudder! Give up their freedom, their full and beautiful
life? Never! Never! Erasmus would be forty next birthday. The "things" remained in warehouse. Valerie went to look at
them. It cost her a dollar an hour, and horrid pangs. The
"things", poor things, looked a bit shabby and wretched in that
warehouse. However, New York was not all America. There was the great
clean West. So the Melvilles went West, with Peter, but without
the things. They tried living the simple life in the mountains.
But doing their own chores became almost a nightmare. "Things"
are all very well to look at, but it's awful handling them, even
when they're beautiful. To be the slave of hideous things, to
keep a stove going, cook meals, wash dishes, carry water, and
clean floors: pure horror of sordid anti-life! In the cabin on the mountains Valerie dreamed of Florence, the
lost apartment; and her Bologna cupboard and Louis Quinze chairs,
above all, her "Chartres" curtains, stored in New York--and
costing fifty dollars a month. A millionaire friend came to the rescue, offering them a
cottage on the Californian coast--California! Where the new soul
is to be born in man. With joy the idealists moved a little
farther west, catching at new vine-props of hope. And finding them straws! The millionaire cottage was perfectly
equipped. It was perhaps as labour-savingly perfect as is
possible: electric heating and cooking, a
white-and-pearl-enamelled kitchen, nothing to make dirt except
the human being himself. In an hour or so the idealists had got
through their chores. They were "free"--free to hear the great
Pacific pounding the coast, and to feel a new soul filling their
bodies. Alas! the Pacific pounded the coast with hideous brutality,
brute force itself! And the new soul, instead of sweetly stealing
into their bodies, seemed only meanly to gnaw the old soul out of
their bodies. To feel you are under the fist of the most blind
and crunching brute force: to feel that your cherished idealist's
soul is being gnawed out of you, and only irritation left in
place of it: well, it isn't good enough. After about nine months the idealists departed from the
Californian west. It had been a great experience; they were glad
to have had it. But, in the long run, the West was not the place
for them, and they knew it. No, the people who wanted new souls
had better get them. They, Valerie and Erasmus Melville, would
like to develop the old soul a little further. Anyway, they had
not felt any influx of new soul on the Californian coast. On the
contrary. So, with a slight hole in their material capital, they
returned to Massachusetts and paid a visit to Valerie's parents,
taking the boy along. The grandparents welcomed the child--poor
expatriated boy--and were rather cold to Valerie, but really cold
to Erasmus. Valerie's mother definitely said to Valerie one day
that Erasmus ought to take a job, so that Valerie could live
decently. Valerie haughtily reminded her mother of the beautiful
apartment on the Arno, and the "wonderful" things in store in New
York, and of the "marvellous and satisfying life" she and Erasmus
had led. Valerie's mother said that she didn't think her
daughter's life looked so very marvellous at present: homeless,
with a husband idle at the age of forty, a child to educate, and
a dwindling capital, looked the reverse of marvellous to
her. Let Erasmus take some post in one of the
universities. "What post? What university?" interrupted Valerie. "That could be found, considering your father's connections
and Erasmus's qualifications," replied Valerie's mother. "And you
could get all your valuable things out of store, and have a
really lovely home, which everybody in America would be proud to
visit. As it is, your furniture is eating up your income, and you
are living like rats in a hole, with nowhere to go to." This was very true. Valerie was beginning to pine for a home,
with her "things". Of course, she could have sold her furniture
for a substantial sum. But nothing would have induced her to.
Whatever else passed away--religions, cultures, continents, and
hopes--Valerie would never part from the "things" which
she and Erasmus had collected with such passion. To these she was
nailed. But she and Erasmus still would not give up that freedom, that
full and beautiful life they had so believed in. Erasmus cursed
America. He did not want to earn a living. He panted for
Europe. Leaving the boy in charge of Valerie's parents, the two
idealists once more set off for Europe. In New York they paid two
dollars and looked for a brief, bitter hour at their "things".
They sailed "student class"--that is, third. Their income now was
less than two thousand dollars, instead of three. And they made
straight for Paris--cheap Paris. They found Europe, this time, a complete failure. "We have
returned like dogs to our vomit," said Erasmus; "but the vomit
has staled in the meantime." He found he couldn't stand Europe.
It irritated every nerve in his body. He hated America, too. But
America at least was a darn sight better than this miserable,
dirt-eating continent; which was by no means cheap any more,
either. Valerie, with her heart on her things--she had really burned
to get them out of that warehouse, where they had stood now for
three years, eating up two thousand dollars--wrote to her mother
she thought Erasmus would come back if he could get some suitable
work in America. Erasmus, in a state of frustration bordering on
rage and insanity, just went round Italy in a poverty-stricken
fashion, his coat-cuffs frayed, hating everything with intensity.
And when a post was found for him in Cleveland University, to
teach French, Italian, and Spanish literature, his eyes grew more
beady, and his long, queer face grew sharper and more rat-like
with utter baffled fury. He was forty, and the job was upon
him. "I think you'd better accept, dear. You don't care for Europe
any longer. As you say, it's dead and finished. They offer us a
house on the College lot, and mother says there's room in it for
all our things. I think we'd better cable 'Accept'." He glowered at her like a cornered rat. One almost expected to
see rat's whiskers twitching at the sides of the sharp nose. "Shall I send the cablegram?" she asked. "Send it!" he blurted. And she went out and sent it. He was a changed man, quieter, much less irritable. A load was
off him. He was inside the cage. But when he looked at the furnaces of Cleveland, vast and like
the greatest of black forests, with red- and white-hot cascades
of gushing metal, and tiny gnomes of men, and terrific noises,
gigantic, he said to Valerie: "Say what you like, Valerie, this is the biggest thing the
modern world has to show." And when they were in their up-to-date little house on the
college lot of Cleveland University, and that woe-begone
débris of Europe--Bologna cupboard, Venice book-shelves,
Ravenna bishop's chair, Louis Quinze side-tables, "Chartres"
curtains, Siena bronze lamps--all were arrayed, and all looked
perfectly out of keeping, and therefore very impressive; and when
the idealists had had a bunch of gaping people in, and Erasmus
had showed off in his best European manner, but still quite
cordial and American, and Valerie had been most ladylike, but for
all that "we prefer America"; then Erasmus said, looking at her
with the queer sharp eyes of a rat:-- "Europe's the mayonnaise all right, but America supplies the
good old lobster--what?" "Every time!" she said, with satisfaction. And he peered at her. He was in the cage: but it was safe
inside. And she, evidently, was her real self at last. She had
got the goods. Yet round his nose was a queer, evil, scholastic
look, of pure scepticism. But he liked lobster. </story>