<story title="LAND" date="1931">
He was named Sidney, for the sake of elegance, just as his
parents had for elegance in their Brooklyn parlor a golden-oak
combination bookcase, desk, and shield-shaped mirror. But Sidney
Dow was descended from generations of Georges and Johns, of
Lorens and Lukes and Nathans. He was little esteemed in the slick bustle of his city school.
He seemed a loutish boy, tall and heavy and slow-spoken, and he
was a worry to his father. For William Dow was an ambitious
parent. Born on a Vermont farm, William felt joyously that he had
done well in the great city of Brooklyn. He had, in 1885, when
Sidney was born, a real bathroom with a fine tin tub, gas lights,
and a handsome phaeton with red wheels, instead of the washtub in
the kitchen for Saturday-night baths, the kerosene lamps, and the
heavy old buggy which his father still used in Vermont. Instead
of being up at 5:30, he could loll abed till a quarter of seven,
and he almost never, he chuckled in gratification at his
progress, was in his office before a quarter to eight. But the luxury of a red-wheeled carriage and late lying did
not indicate that William's Yankee shrewdness had been cozened by
urban vice, or that he was any less solid and respectable than
old George, his own father. He was a deacon in the Universalist
church, he still said grace before meals, and he went to the
theater only when Ben-Hur was appearing. For his son, Sidney, William Dow had even larger ambitions.
William himself had never gone to high school, and his business
was only a cautious real-estate and insurance agency, his home a
squatting two-story brick house in a red, monotonous row. But
Sidney--he should go to college, he should be a doctor or a
preacher or a lawyer, he should travel in Europe, he should live
in a three-story graystone house in the Forties in Manhattan, he
should have a dress suit and wear it to respectable but expensive
hops! William had once worn dress clothes at an Odd Fellows' ball,
but they had been rented. To enable Sidney to attain all these graces, William toiled
and sacrificed and prayed. American fathers have always been as
extraordinary as Scotch fathers in their heroic ambitions for
their sons--and sometimes as unscrupulous and as unwise. It
bruised William and often it made him naggingly unkind to see
that Sidney, the big slug, did not "appreciate how his parents
were trying to do for him and give him every opportunity." When
they had a celebrated Columbia Heights physician as guest for
dinner, Sidney merely gawked at him and did not at all try to
make an impression. "Suffering cats! You might have been one of your uncles still
puttering around with dirty pitchforks back on the farm! What are
you going to do with yourself, anyway?" raged William. "I guess maybe I'd like to be a truck driver," mumbled
Sidney. Yet, even so, William should not have whipped him. It only
made him sulkier. ? ? To Sidney Dow, at sixteen, his eagerest memories were of
occasional weeks he had spent with his grandfather and uncles on
the Vermont farm, and the last of these was seven years back now.
He remembered Vermont as an enchanted place, with curious and
amusing animals--cows, horses, turkeys. He wanted to return, but
his father seemed to hate the place. Of Brooklyn, Sidney liked
nothing save livery stables and occasional agreeable gang fights,
with stones inside iced snowballs. He hated school, where he had
to cramp his big knees under trifling desks, where irritable lady
teachers tried to make him see the importance of A's going more
rapidly than B to the town of X, a town in which he was even less
interested than in Brooklyn--school where hour on hour he looked
over the top of his geography and stolidly hated the whiskers of
Longfellow, Lowell, and Whittier. He hated the stiff, clean
collar and the itchy, clean winter underwear connected with
Sunday school. He hated hot evenings smelling of tarry pavements,
and cold evenings when the pavements were slippery. But he didn't know that he hated any of these things. He knew
only that his father must be right in saying that he was a bad,
disobedient, ungrateful young whelp, and in his heart he was as
humble as in his speech he was sullen. Then, at sixteen, he came to life suddenly, on an early June
morning, on his grandfather's farm. His father had sent him up to
Vermont for the summer, had indeed exiled him, saying grimly, "I
guess after you live in that tumbledown big old shack and work in
the fields and have to get up early, instead of lying abed till
your majesty is good and ready to have the girl wait on you--I
guess that next fall you'll appreciate your nice home and school
and church here, young man!" So sure of himself was his father
that Sidney was convinced he was going to encounter hardship on
the farm, and all the way up, in the smarting air of the smoker
on the slow train, he wanted to howl. The train arrived at ten in
the evening, and he was met by his uncle Rob, a man rugged as a
pine trunk and about as articulate. "Well! Come for the summer!" said Uncle Rob; and after they
had driven three miles: "Got new calf--yeh, new calf"; and after
a mile more: "Your pa all right?" And that was all the
conversation of Uncle Rob. Seven years it was since Sidney had been in any country wilder
than Far Rockaway, and the silent hills of night intimidated him.
It was a roaring silence, a silence full of stifled threats. The
hills that cut the stars so high up on either side the road
seemed walls that would topple and crush him, as a man would
crush a mosquito between his two palms. And once he cried out
when, in the milky light from the lantern swung beneath the
wagon, he saw a porcupine lurch into the road before them. It was
dark, chill, unfriendly and, to the boy, reared to the lights and
cheery voices of the city, even though he hated them, it was
appallingly lonely. His grandfather's house was dark when they arrived. Uncle Rob
drove into the barn, jerked his thumb at a ladder up to the
haymow and muttered, "Y'sleep up there. Not allowed t' smoke.
Take this lantern when we've unharnessed. Sure to put it out. No
smoking in the barn. Too tired to help?" Too tired? Sidney would have been glad to work till daylight
if Uncle Rob would but stay with him. He was in a panic at the
thought of being left in the ghostly barn where, behind the
pawing of horses and the nibble of awakened cows, there were the
sounds of anonymous wild animals--scratchings, squeaks,
patterings overhead. He made the task as slow as possible, though
actually he was handy with horses, for the livery stables of
Brooklyn had been his favorite refuge and he had often been
permitted to help the hostlers, quite free. "Gee, Uncle Rob, I guess I'm kind of all thumbs about
unharnessing and like that. Seven years since I been here on the
farm." "That so? G'night. Careful of that lantern now. And no
smoking!" ? ? The barn was blank as a blind face. The lantern was
flickering, and in that witching light the stalls and the heap of
sleighs, plows, old harness, at the back wall of the barn were
immense and terrifying. The barn was larger than his whole house
in Brooklyn, and ten times as large it seemed in the dimness. He
could not see clear to the back wall, and he imagined abominable
monsters lurking there. He dashed at the ladder up to the haymow,
the lantern handle in his teeth and his imitation-leather satchel
in one hand. And the haymow, rising to the darkness of its hand-hewn
rafters, seemed vaster and more intimidating than the space
below. In one corner a space had been cleared of hay for a cot,
with a blanket and a pea-green comforter, and for a chair and a
hinged box. Sidney dashed at the cot and crawled into it, waiting
only to take off his shoes and jacket. Till the lantern flame
died down to a red rim of charred wick, he kept it alight. Then
utter darkness leaped upon him. A rooster crowed, and he startled. Past him things scampered
and chittered. The darkness seemed to swing in swift eddies under
the rafters, the smell of dry hay choked him--and he awoke to
light slipping in silver darts through cracks in the roof, and to
jubilant barn swallows diving and twittering. "Gee, I must have fell asleep!" he thought. He went down the
ladder, and now, first, he saw the barn. Like many people slow of thought and doubtful of speech,
Sidney Dow had moments of revelation as complete as those of a
prophet, when he beheld a scene or a person or a problem in its
entirety, with none of the confusing thoughts of glibber and more
clever people with their minds forever running off on many
tracks. He saw the barn--really saw it, instead of merely
glancing at it, like a normal city boy. He saw that the beams,
hand-hewn, gray with sixty years, were beautiful; that the sides
of the stalls, polished with rubbing by the shoulders of cattle
dead these fifty years, were beautiful; that the harrow, with its
trim spikes kept sharp and rustless, was beautiful; that most
beautiful of all were the animals--cows and horses, chickens that
walked with bobbing heads through the straw, and a calf tethered
to the wall. The calf capered with alarm as he approached it;
then stood considering him with great eyes, letting him stroke
its head and at last licking his hand. He slouched to the door of
the barn and looked down the valley. More radiant in that early
morning light than even the mountain tops covered with maples and
hemlock were the upland clearings with white houses and red
barns. "Gosh, it looks nice! It's--it's sort of--it looks nice! I
didn't hardly get it when I was here before. But gee"--with all
the scorn of sixteen--"I was just a kid then!" ? ? With Uncle Rob he drove the cows to pasture; with Uncle Ben he
plowed; with his grandfather, sourly philanthropic behind his
beard, he split wood. He found an even greater menagerie than in
the barn--turkeys, geese, ducks, pigs and, in the woods and
mowings, an exciting remnant of woodchucks, chipmunks, rabbits,
and infrequent deer. With all of them--uncles and grandfather,
beasts, wild or tame--he felt at home. They did not expect him to
chatter and show off, as had his gang in Brooklyn; they accepted
him. That, perhaps, more than any ancestral stoutness, more than
the beauty of the land, made a farmer of him. He was a natural
hermit, and here he could be a hermit without seeming queer. And a good farmer he was--slow but tireless, patient,
unannoyed by the endless work, happy to go to bed early and be up
at dawn. For a few days his back felt as though he were burning
at the stake, but after that he could lift all day in the
hayfield or swing the scythe or drive the frisky young team. He
was a good farmer, and he slept at night. The noises which on his
first night had fretted his city-tortured nerves were soporific
now, and when he heard the sound of a distant train, the barking
of a dog on the next farm, he inarticulately told himself that
they were lovely. "You're pretty fair at working," said Uncle Rob, and that was
praise almost hysterical. Indeed, in one aspect of labor, Sidney was better than any of
them, even the pine-carved Uncle Rob. He could endure wet dawns,
wild winds, all-day drenching. It seems to be true that farmers
are more upset by bad weather than most outdoor workers--sailors,
postmen, carpenters, brakemen, teamsters. Perhaps it is because
they are less subject to higher authority; except for chores and
getting in the hay, they can more nearly do things in their own
time, and they build up a habit of taking shelter on nasty days.
Whether or no, it was true that just the city crises that had
vexed Sidney, from icy pavements to sudden fire alarms, had given
him the ability to stand discomforts and the unexpected, like a
little Cockney surprisingly stolid in the trenches. He learned the silent humor of the authentic Yankee. Evenings
he sat with neighbors on the bench before the general store. To a
passing stranger they seemed to be saying nothing, but when the
stranger had passed, Uncle Rob would drawl, "Well, if I had fly
nets on my hosses, guess I'd look stuck-up too!" and the others
would chuckle with contempt at the alien. This, thought Sidney, was good talk--not like the smart gabble
of the city. It was all beautiful, and he knew it, though in his
vocabulary there was no such word as "beautiful," and when he saw
the most flamboyant sunset he said only, "Guess going to be clear
tomorrow." And so he went back to Brooklyn, not as to his home but as to
prison, and as a prison corridor he saw the narrow street with
little houses like little cells. Five minutes after he had entered the house, his father
laughed. "Well, did you get enough of farming? I guess you'll
appreciate your school now! I won't rub it in, but I swear, how
Rob and Ben can stand it--" "I kind of liked it, Dad. I think I'll be a farmer. I--kind of
liked it." His father had black side whiskers, and between them he had
thin cheeks that seemed, after Uncle Rob and Uncle Ben, pallid as
the under side of a toadstool. They flushed now, and William
shouted: "You're an idiot! What have I done to have a son who is an
idiot? The way I've striven and worked and economized to give you
a chance to get ahead, to do something worth while, and then you
want to slip right back and be ordinary, like your uncles! So you
think you'd like it! You're a fool! Sure you like it in summer,
but if you knew it like I do--rousted out to do the chores five
o'clock of a January morning, twenty below zero, and maybe have
to dig through two feet of snow to get to the barn! Have to tramp
down to the store, snowstorm so thick you can't see five feet in
front of you!" "I don't guess I'd mind it much." "Oh, you don't! Don't be a fool! And no nice company like
here--go to bed with the chickens, a winter night, and no nice
lodge meeting or church supper or lectures like there is
here!" "Don't care so much for those things. Everybody talking all
the while. I like it quiet, like in the country." "Well, you will care so much for those things, or I'll care
you, my fine young man! I'm not going to let you slump back into
being a rube like Ben, and don't you forget it! I'll make you
work at your books! I'll make you learn to appreciate good
society and dressing proper and getting ahead in the world and
amounting to something! Yes, sir, amounting to something! Do you
think for one moment that after the struggle I've gone through to
give you a chance--the way I studied in a country school and
earned my way through business college and went to work at five
dollars a week in a real-estate office and studied and economized
and worked late, so I could give you this nice house and
advantages and opportunity--No, sir! You're going to be a lawyer
or a doctor or somebody that amounts to something, and not a
rube!" It would have been too much to expect of Sidney's imagination
that he should have seen anything fine and pathetic in William's
fierce ambition. That did not move him, but rather fear. He could
have broken his father in two, but the passion in this blenched
filing-case of a man was such that it hypnotized him. For days, miserably returned to high school, he longed for the
farm. But his mother took him aside and begged: "You mustn't
oppose your father so, dearie. He knows what's best for you, and
it would just break his heart if he thought you were going to be
a common person and not have something to show for all his
efforts." So Sidney came to feel that it was some wickedness in him that
made him prefer trees and winds and meadows and the kind cattle
to trolley cars and offices and people who made little, flat,
worried jokes all day long. He barely got through high school. His summer vacations he
spent in warehouses, hoisting boxes. He failed to enter medical
school, botched his examinations shockingly--feeling wicked at
betraying his father's ambitions--and his father pushed him into
a second-rate dental school with sketchy requirements, a school
now blessedly out of existence. "Maybe you'd be better as a dentist anyway. Requires a lot of
manipulation, and I will say you're good with your hands," his
father said, in relief that now Sidney was on the highway to
fortune and respectability. But Sidney's hands, deft with hammer and nails, with reins or
hoe or spade, were too big, too awkward for the delicate
operations of dentistry. And in school he hated the long-winded
books with their queer names and shocking colored plates of man's
inwards. The workings of a liver did not interest him. He had
never seen a liver, save that of a slain chicken. He would turn
from these mysteries to a catalogue of harvesting machinery or
vegetable seed. So with difficulty he graduated from this
doubtful school, and he was uneasy at the pit of his stomach,
even when his father, much rejoicing now, bought for him a
complete dental outfit, and rented an office, on the new frontier
of the Bronx, in the back part of a three-story redbrick
apartment house. His father and mother invited their friends over from Brooklyn
to admire the office, and served them coffee and cake. Not many
of them came, which was well, for the office was not large. It
was really a single room, divided by a curtain to make a
reception hall. The operating room had pink-calcimined walls and,
for adornment, Sidney's diploma and a calendar from a dental
supply house which showed, with no apparent appropriateness, a
view of Pike's Peak. When they had all gone, mouthing congratulations, Sidney
looked wistfully out on the old pasture land which, fifteen years
later, was to be filled solidly with tall, cheap apartment houses
and huge avenues with delicatessen shops and movie palaces.
Already these pastures were doomed and abandoned. Cows no longer
grazed there. Gaunt billboards lined the roads and behind their
barricades were unkempt waste lands of ashes and sodden
newspapers. But they were open grass, and they brought back the
valleys and uplands of Vermont. His great arms were hungry for
the strain of plowing, and he sighed and turned back to his
shining new kit of tools. The drill he picked up was absurd against his wide red palm.
All at once he was certain that he knew no dentistry, and that he
never would; that he would botch every case; that dreadful things
would happen--suits for malpractice-- Actually, as a few and poorly paying neighborhood patients
began to come in, the dreadful things didn't happen. Sidney was
slow, but he was careful; if he did no ingenious dental jeweling,
he did nothing wrong. He learned early what certain dentists and
doctors never learn--that nature has not yet been entirely
supplanted by the professions. It was not his patients who
suffered; it was he. All day long to have to remain indoors, to stand in one place,
bent over gaping mouths, to fiddle with tiny instruments, to
produce unctuous sounds of sympathy for cranks who complained of
trivial aches, to try to give brisk and confident advice which
was really selling talk--all this tortured him. Then, within one single year, his mother died, his grandfather
died on the Vermont farm, Uncle Rob and Uncle Ben moved West, and
Sidney met the most wonderful girl in the world. The name of this
particular most wonderful girl in the world, who unquestionably
had more softness and enchantment and funny little ways of saying
things than Helen of Troy, was Mabelle Ellen Pflugmann, and she
was cultured; she loved the theater, but rarely attended it;
loved also the piano, but hadn't time, she explained, to keep up
her practice, because, her father's laundry being in a state of
debility, for several years she had temporarily been cashier at
the Kwiturwurry Lunch. They furnished a four-room apartment and went to Vermont for
their honeymoon. His grandfather's farm--Sidney wasn't quite sure
just who had bought it--was rented out to what the neighborhood
considered foreigners--that is, Vermonters from way over beyond
the Ridge, fifteen miles away. They took in Sidney and Mabelle.
She enjoyed it. She told how sick she had become of the smell and
dish clatter of the ole lunch and the horrid customers who were
always trying to make love to her. She squealed equally over
mountains and ducklings, sunsets and wild strawberries, and as
for certain inconveniences--washing with a pitcher and bowl,
sleeping in a low room smelling of the chicken run, and having
supper in the kitchen with the menfolks in shirt sleeves--she
said it was just too darling for words--it was, in fact, sweet.
But after ten days of the fortnight on which they had planned,
she thought perhaps they had better get back to New York and make
sure all the furniture had arrived. They were happy in marriage. Mabelle saw him, and made him see
himself, as a man strong and gallant but shy and blundering. He
needed mothering, she said, and he got it and was convinced that
he liked it. He was less gruff with his patients, and he had many
more of them, for Mabelle caused him to be known socially. Till
marriage he had lived in a furnished room, and all evening he had
prowled alone, or read dentistry journals and seed catalogues.
Now Mabelle arranged jolly little parties--beer and Welsh rabbit
and a game of five hundred. If at the Kwiturwurry Lunch she had
met many light fellows, West Farms Lotharios, she had also met
estimable but bohemian families of the neighborhood--big
traveling men whose territory took them as far west as Denver,
assistant buyers from the downtown department stores, and the
office manager of a large insurance agency. Mabelle, a chatelaine now, wanted to shine among them, and
wanted Sidney to shine. And he, feeling a little cramped in a new
double-breasted blue serge coat, solemnly served the beer, and
sometimes a guest perceived that here was an honest and solid
dentist upon whom to depend. And once they gave a theater
party--six seats at a vaudeville house. Yet Sidney was never, when he awoke mornings, excited about
the adventure of standing with bent, aching shoulders over
patients all this glorious coming day. They had two children in three years and began to worry a
little about the rent bill and the grocery bill, and Sidney was
considerably less independent with grumbling patients than he had
been. His broad shoulders had a small stoop, and he said quite
humbly, "Well, I'll try my best to fix 'em to your satisfaction,
Mrs. Smallberg," and sometimes his thick fingers tapped nervously
on his chin as he talked. And he envied now, where once he had
despised them, certain dental-school classmates who knew little
of dentistry, but who were slick dressers and given to verbal
chuckings under the chin, who had made money and opened
three-room offices with chintz chairs in the waiting room. Sidney
still had his old office, with no assistant, and the jerry-built
tenement looked a little shabby now beside the six-story
apartment houses of yellow brick trimmed with marble which had
sprung up all about it. Then their children, Rob and Willabette, were eight and six
years old, and Mabelle began to nag Sidney over the children's
lack of clothes as pretty as those of their lovely little friends
at school. And his dental engine--only a treadle affair at that--was worn
out. And his elbows were always shiny. And in early autumn his
father died. His father died, muttering, "You've been a good boy, Sid, and
done what I told you to. You can understand and appreciate now
why I kept you from being just a farmer and gave you a chance to
be a professional man. I don't think Mabelle comes from an awful
good family, but she's a spunky little thing, and real bright,
and she'll keep you up to snuff. Maybe some day your boy will be
a great, rich banker or surgeon. Keep him away from his Vermont
relations--no ambition, those folks. My chest feels so tight!
Bless you, Sid!" He was his father's sole heir. When the will was read in the
shabby lawyer's office in Brooklyn, he was astonished to find
that his father had still owned--that he himself now owned--the
ancestral Vermont home. His slow-burning imagination lighted. He
was touched by the belief that his father, for all his pretended
hatred of the place, had cherished it and had wanted his son to
own it. Not till afterward did he learn from Uncle Rob that
William, when his own father had died, had, as eldest son, been
given the choice of the farm or half the money in the estate, and
had taken the farm to keep Sidney away from it. He had been
afraid that if his brothers had it they would welcome Sidney as a
partner before he became habituated as a dentist. But in his last
days, apparently, William felt that Sidney was safely civilized
now and caught. With the farm Sidney inherited some three
thousand dollars--not more, for the Brooklyn home was
mortgaged. Instantly and ecstatically, while the lawyer droned senseless
advice, Sidney decided to go home. The tenant on his
farm--his!--had only two months more on his lease. He'd take it
over. The three thousand dollars would buy eight cows--well, say
ten--with a cream separator, a tractor, a light truck, and serve
to put the old buildings into condition adequate for a few years.
He'd do the repairing himself! He arched his hands with longing
for the feel of a hammer or a crowbar. In the hall outside the lawyer's office, Mabelle crowed:
"Isn't it--oh, Sid, you do know how sorry I am your father's
passed on, but won't it be just lovely! The farm must be worth
four thousand dollars. We'll be just as sensible as can be--not
blow it all in, like lots of people would. We'll invest the seven
thousand, and that ought to give us three hundred and fifty
dollars a year--think of it, an extra dollar every day! You can
get a dress suit now, and at last I'll have some decent dresses
for the evening, and we'll get a new suit for Rob right away--how
soon can you get the money? did he say?--and I saw some lovely
little dresses for Willabette and the cutest slippers, and now we
can get a decent bridge table instead of that rickety old thing,
and--" As she babbled, which she did, at length, on the stairs down
from the office, Sidney realized wretchedly that it was going to
take an eloquence far beyond him to convert her to farming and
the joys of the land. He was afraid of her, as he had been of his
father. "There's a drug store over across. Let's go over and have an
ice-cream soda," he said mildly. "Gosh, it's hot for September!
Up on the farm now it would be cool, and the leaves are just
beginning to turn. They're awful pretty--all red and yellow." "Oh, you and your old farm!" But in her joy she was
amiable. They sat at the bright-colored little table in the drug store,
with cheery colored drinks between them. But the scene should
have been an ancient castle at midnight, terrible with wind and
lightning, for suddenly they were not bright nor cheery, but
black with tragedy. There was no manner of use in trying to cajole her. She could
never understand how he hated the confinement of his dental
office; she would say, "Why, you get the chance of meeting all
sorts of nice, interesting people, while I have to stay home,"
and not perceive that he did not want to meet nice, interesting
people. He wanted silence and the smell of earth! And he was
under her spell as he had been under his father's. Only violently
could he break it. He spoke softly enough, looking at the giddy
marble of the soda counter, but he spoke sternly: "Look here, May. This is our chance. You bet your sweet life
we're going to be sensible and not blow in our stake! And we're
not going to blow it in on a lot of clothes and a lot of fool
bridge parties for a lot of fool folks that don't care one red
hoot about us except what they get out of us! For that matter, if
we were going to stay on in New York--" "Which we most certainly are, young man!" "Will you listen to me? I inherited this dough, not you! Gee,
I don't want to be mean, May, but you got to listen to reason,
and as I'm saying, if we were going to stay in the city, the
first thing I'd spend money for would be a new dental engine--an
electric one. "Need it like the mischief--lose patients when they see me
pumping that old one and think I ain't up-to-date--which I ain't,
but that's no skin off their nose!" Even the volatile Mabelle was silent at the unprecedented
length and vigor of his oration. "But we're not going to stay. No, sir! We're going back to the
old farm, and the kids will be brought up in the fresh air
instead of a lot of alleys. Go back and farm it--" She exploded then, and as she spoke she looked at him with
eyes hot with hatred, the first hatred he had ever known in
her: "Are you crazy? Go back to that hole? Have my kids messing
around a lot of manure and dirty animals and out working in the
hayfield like a lot of cattle? And attend a little one-room
school with a boob for a teacher? And play with a lot of nitwit
brats? Not on your life they won't! I've got some ambition for
'em, even if you haven't!" "Why, May, I thought you liked Vermont and the farm! You were
crazy about it on our honeymoon, and you said--" "I did not! I hated it even then. I just said I liked it to
make you happy. That stifling little bedroom, and kerosene lamps,
and bugs, and no bathroom, and those fools of farmers in their
shirt sleeves--Oh, it was fierce! If you go, you go without the
kids and me! I guess I can still earn a living! And I guess
there's still plenty of other men would like to marry me when I
divorce you! And I mean it!" She did, and Sidney knew she did. He collapsed as helplessly
as he had with his father. "Well, of course, if you can't stand it--" he muttered. "Well, I'm glad you're beginning to come to your senses!
Honest, I think you were just crazy with the heat! But listen,
here's what I'll do: I won't kick about your getting the electric
dental doodingus if it don't cost too much. Now how do you go
about selling the farm?" There began for this silent man a secret life of plotting and
of lies. Somehow--he could not see how--he must persuade her to
go to the farm. Perhaps she would die--But he was shocked at this
thought, for he loved her and believed her to be the best woman
living, as conceivably she may have been. But he did not obey her
and sell the farm. He lied. He told her that a Vermont
real-estate dealer had written that just this autumn there was no
market for farms, but next year would be excellent. And the next
year he repeated the lie, and rented the farm to Uncle Rob, who
had done well enough on Iowa cornland but was homesick for the
hills and sugar groves and placid maples of Vermont. Himself,
Sidney did not go to the farm. It was not permitted. Mabelle was furious that he had not sold, that they had only
the three thousand--which was never invested--for clothes and
bridge prizes and payments on the car and, after a good deal of
irritated talk, his electric dental engine. If he had always been sullenly restless in his little office,
now he was raging. He felt robbed. The little back room, the
view--not even of waste land now, but of the center of a cheap
block and the back of new tenements--the anguish of patients,
which crucified his heavy, unspoken sympathy for them, and that
horrible, unending series of wide-stretched mouths and bad molars
and tongues--it was intolerable. He thought of meadows scattered
with daisies and devil's-paintbrush, of dark, healing
thundershowers pouring up the long valley. He must go home to the
land! From the landlord who owned his office he got, in the spring a
year and a half after his father's death, the right to garden a
tiny patch amid the litter and cement areaways in the center of
the block. Mabelle laughed at him, but he stayed late every
evening to cultivate each inch of his pocket paradise--a large
man, with huge feet, setting them carefully down in a plot ten
feet square. The earth understood him, as it does such men, and before the
Long Island market gardeners had anything to display, Sidney had
a row of beautiful radish plants. A dozen radishes, wrapped in a
tabloid newspaper, he took home one night, and he said
vaingloriously to Mabelle, "You'll never get any radishes like
these in the market! Right out of our own garden!" She ate one absently. He braced himself to hear a jeering "You
and your old garden!" What he did hear was, in its uncaring,
still worse: "Yes, they're all right, I guess." He'd show her! He'd make her see him as a great farmer! And
with that ambition he lost every scruple. He plotted. And this
was the way of that plotting: Early in July he said, and casually, "Well, now we got the
darn car all paid for, we ought to use it. Maybe we might take
the kids this summer and make a little tour for a couple weeks or
so." "Where?" She sounded suspicious, and in his newborn guile he droned,
"Oh, wherever you'd like. I hear it's nice up around Niagara
Falls and the Great Lakes. Maybe come back by way of
Pennsylvania, and see Valley Forge and all them famous historical
sites." "Well, yes, perhaps. The Golheims made a tour last summer
and--they make me sick!--they never stop talking about it." They went. And Mabelle enjoyed it. She was by no means always
a nagger and an improver; she was so only when her interests or
what she deemed the interests of her children were threatened.
She made jokes about the towns through which they passed--any
community of less than fifty thousand was to her New Yorkism a
"hick hole"--and she even sang jazz and admired his driving,
which was bad. They had headed north, up the Hudson. At Glens Falls he took
the highway to the right, instead of left toward the Great Lakes,
and she, the city girl, the urban rustic, to whom the only
directions that meant anything were East Side and West Side as
applied to New York, did not notice, and she was still
unsuspicious when he grumbled. "Looks to me like I'd taken the
wrong road." Stopping at a filling station, he demanded, "How far
is it to Lake George? We ought to be there now." "Well, stranger, way you're headed, it'll be about twenty-five
thousand miles. You're going plumb in the wrong direction." "I'll be darned! Where are we? Didn't notice the name of the
last town we went through." "You're about a mile from Fair Haven." "Vermont?" "Yep." "Well, I'll be darned! Just think of that! Can't even be
trusted to stay in one state and not skid across the border
line!" Mabelle was looking suspicious, and he said with desperate
gayety, "Say, do you know what, May? We're only forty miles from
our farm! Let's go have a look at it." Mabelle made a sound of
protest, but he turned to the children, in the back seat amid a
mess of suitcases and tools and a jack and spare inner tubes, and
gloated, "Wouldn't you kids like to see the farm where I worked
as a kid--where your grandfather and great-grandfather were born?
And see your Granduncle Rob? And see all the little chicks, and
so on?" "Oh, yes!" they shrilled together. With that enthusiasm from her beloved young, with the smart
and uniformed young filling-station attendant listening,
Mabelle's talent for being righteous and indignant was gagged.
Appearances! She said lightly to the filling-station man, "The
doctor just doesn't seem to be able to keep the road at all, does
he? Well, Doctor, shall we get started?" Even when they had gone on and were alone and ready for a
little sound domestic quarreling, she merely croaked, "Just the
same, it seems mighty queer to me!" And after another mile of
brooding, while Sidney drove silently and prayed: "Awfully
queer!" But he scarcely heard her. He was speculating, without in the
least putting it into words, "I wonder if in the early summer
evenings the fireflies still dart above the meadows? I wonder if
the full moon, before it rises behind the hemlocks and sugar
maples along the Ridge, still casts up a prophetic glory? I
wonder if sleepy dogs still bark across the valley? I wonder if
the night breeze slips through the mowing? I, who have for
fortress and self-respect only a stuffy office room--I wonder if
there are still valleys and stars and the quiet night? Or was
that all only the dream of youth?" ? ? They slept at Rutland, Sidney all impatient of the citified
hotel bedroom. It was at ten in the morning--he drove in twenty
minutes the distance which thirty years ago had taken Uncle Rob
an hour and a half--that he drove up to the white house where,
since 1800, the Dows had been born. He could see Uncle Rob with the hayrake in the south mowing,
sedately driving the old team and ignoring the visitors. "I guess he prob'ly thinks we're bootleggers," chuckled
Sidney. "Come on, you kids! Here's where your old daddy worked
all one summer! Let's go! . . . Thirsty? Say, I'll give you a
drink of real spring water--not none of this chlorinated city
stuff! And we'll see the menagerie." Before he had finished, Rob and Willabette had slipped over
the rear doors of the car and were looking down into the valley
with little sounds of excitement. Sidney whisked out almost as
quickly as they, while Mabelle climbed down with the dignity
suitable to a dweller in the Bronx. He ignored her. He clucked
his children round the house to the spring-fed well and pumped a
bucket of water. "Oh, it's so cold, Daddy. It's swell!" said Rob. "You bet your life it's cold and swell. Say! Don't use words
like 'swell'! They're common. But hell with that! Come on, you
brats! I'll show you something!" There were kittens, and two old, grave, courteous cats. There
was a calf--heaven knows by how many generations it was descended
from the calf that on a June morning, when Sidney was sixteen,
had licked his fingers. There were ducklings, and young turkeys
with feathers grotesquely scattered over their skins like palm
trees in a desert, and unexpected more kittens, and an old,
brown-and-white, tail-wagging dog, and a pen of excited little
pigs. The children squealed over all of them until Mabelle caught
up, puffing a little. "Well," she said, "the kits are kind of cute, ain't they?"
Then, darkly: "Now that you've got me here, Sid, with your plans
and all!" Uncle Rob crept up, snarling, "What you folks want? . . . By
gracious, if it ain't Sid! This your wife and children? Well,
sir!" It was, Sidney felt, the climax of his plot, and he cried to
his son, "Rob! This is your granduncle, that you were named for.
How'd you like to stay here on the farm instead of in New
York?" "Hot dog! I'd love it! Them kittens and the li'l' ducks! Oh,
they're the berries! You bet I'd like to stay!" "Oh, I'd love it!" gurgled his sister. "You would not!" snapped Mabelle. "With no bathroom?" "We could put one in," growled Sidney. "On what? On all the money you'd make growing orchids and
bananas here, I guess! You kids--how'd you like to walk two miles
to school, through the snow, in winter?" "Oh, that would be slick! Maybe we could kill a deer," said
young Rob. "Yes, and maybe a field mouse could kill you, you dumb-bell!
Sure! Lovely! All evening with not a dog-gone thing to do after
supper!" "Why, we'd go to the movies! Do you go to the movies often,
Granduncle Rob?" "Well, afraid in winter you wouldn't get to go to the movies
at all. Pretty far into town," hesitated Uncle Rob. "Not--go--to--the--movies?" screamed the city children,
incredulous. It was the most terrible thing they had ever heard
of. Rob, Jr., mourned, "Oh, gee, that wouldn't be so good! Say,
how do the hicks learn anything if they don't go to the movies?
But still, we could go in the summer, Ma, and in the winter it
would be elegant, with sliding and hunting and everything. I'd
love it!" Mabelle cooked supper, banging the pans a good deal and
emitting opinions of a house that had no porcelain sink, no water
taps, no refrigerator, no gas or electricity. She was silent
through supper, silent as Sidney, silent as Uncle Rob. But Sidney
was exultant. With the children for allies, he would win. And the
children themselves, they were hysterical. Until Mabelle screamed
for annoyance; they leaped up from the table, to come back with
the most unspeakable and un-Bronxian objects--a cat
affectionately carried by his hind leg, but squealing with
misunderstanding of the affection, a dead mole, an unwiped oil
can, a muck-covered spade. "But, Mother," they protested, "in the city you never find
anything, except maybe a dead lemon." She shooed them off to bed at eight; herself, sniffily, she
disappeared at nine, muttering to Sidney, "I hope you and your
boy friend, Uncle Rob, chew the rag all night and get it out of
your systems!" He was startled, for indeed the next step of his plot did
concern Uncle Rob and secret parleys. For half an hour he walked the road, almost frightened by the
intensity of stillness. He could fancy catamounts in the birch
clumps. But between spasms of skittish city nerves he stretched
out his arms, arched back his hands, breathed consciously. This
was not just air, necessary meat for the lungs; it was a spirit
that filled him. He knew that he must not tarry after 9:30 for his intrigue
with Uncle Rob. Uncle Rob was seventy-five, and in seventy-five
times three hundred and sixty-five evenings he had doubtless
stayed up later than 9:30 o'clock several times--dancing with the
little French Canuck girls at Potsdam Forge as a young man,
sitting up with a sick cow since then, or stuck in the mud on his
way back from Sunday-evening meeting. But those few times were
epochal. Uncle Rob did not hold with roistering and staying up
till all hours just for the vanities of the flesh. Sidney crept up the stairs to Uncle Rob's room. Mabelle and Sidney had the best bedroom, on the ground floor;
young Rob and Bette had Grampa's room, on the second; Uncle Rob
lived in the attic. City folks might have wondered why Uncle Rob, tenant and
controller of the place, should have hidden in the attic, with
three good bedrooms below him. It was simple. Uncle Rob had
always lived there since he was a boy. Up the narrow stairs, steep as a rock face, Sidney crept, and
knocked. "Who's there!" A sharp voice, a bit uneasy. How many years was
it since Uncle Rob had heard anyone knock at his bedroom
door? "It's me, Rob--Sid." "Oh, well--well, guess you can come in. Wait 'll I unlock the
door." Sidney entered his uncle's room for the first time in his
life. The hill people, anywhere in the world, do not intrude or
encourage intrusion. Perhaps to fastidious and alien persons Uncle Rob's room would
have seemed unlovely. It was lighted by a kerosene lamp, smoking
a little, with the wick burned down on one side. There was, for
furniture, only a camp cot, with a kitchen chair, a washstand and
a bureau. But to make up for this paucity, the room was rather
littered. On the washstand, beside a pitcher dry from long
disuse, there were a mail-order catalogue, a few packets of seed,
a lone overshoe, a ball of twine, a bottle of applejack, and a
Spanish War veteran's medal. The walls and ceiling were of
plaster so old that they showed in black lines the edges of every
lath. And Sidney liked it--liked the simplicity, liked the freedom
from neatness and order and display, liked and envied the
old-bach quality of it all. Uncle Rob, lying on the bed, had prepared for slumber by
removing his shoes and outer clothing. He blinked at Sidney's
amazing intrusion, but he said amiably enough, "Well, boy?" "Uncle Rob, can't tell you how glad I am to be back at the old
place!" "H'm." "Look, I--Golly, I feel skittish as a young colt! Hardly know
the old doc, my patients wouldn't! Rob, you got to help me.
Mabelle don't want to stay here and farm it--maybe me and you
partners, eh? But the kids and I are crazy to. How I hate that
ole city! So do the kids." "Yeh?" "Sure they do. Didn't you hear how they said they wouldn't
mind tramping to school and not having any movies?" "Sid, maybe you'll understand kids when you get to be a
granddad. Kids will always agree with anything that sounds
exciting. Rob thinks it would be dandy to hoof it two miles
through the snow to school. He won't! Not once he's done it!"
Uncle Rob thrust his hands behind his skinny, bark-brown old neck
on the maculate pillow. He was making perhaps the longest oration
of his life. The light flickered, and a spider moved indignantly
in its web in a corner. "No," said Uncle Rob, "he won't like it.
I never did. And the schoolmaster used to lick me. I hated it,
crawling through that snow and then get licked because you're
late. And jiminy--haven't thought of it for thirty years, I
guess, maybe forty, but I remember how some big fellow would dare
you to put your tongue to your lunch pail, and it was maybe
thirty below, and your tongue stuck to it and it took the hide
right off! No, I never liked any of it, especially chores." "Rob, listen! I'm serious! The kids will maybe kind of find it
hard at first, but they'll get to like it, and they'll grow up
real folks and not city saps. It'll be all right with them. I'll
see to that. It's Mabelle. Listen, Rob, I've got a swell idea
about her, and I want you to help me. You get hold of the ladies
of the township--the Grange members and the Methodist ladies and
like that. You tell 'em Mabelle is a swell city girl, and it
would be dandy for the neighborhood if they could get her to stay
here. She's grand, but she does kind of fall for flattery, and in
the Bronx she ain't so important, and if these ladies came and
told her they thought she was the cat's pajamas, maybe she'd fall
for it, and then I guess maybe she might stay, if the ladies
came--" "They wouldn't!" Uncle Rob had been rubbing his long and prickly chin and
curling his toes in his gray socks. "What do you mean?" "Well, first place, the ladies round here would be onto your
Mabelle. They ain't so backwoods as they was in your time. Take
Mrs. Craig. Last three winters, her and her husband, Frank, have
packed up the flivver and gone to Florida. But that ain't it.
Fact is, Sid, I kind of sympathize with Mabelle." "What do you mean?" "Well, I never was strong for farming. Hard life, Sid. Always
thought I'd like to keep store or something in the city. You
forget how hard the work is here. You with your easy job, just
filling a few teeth! No, I can't help you, Sid." "I see. All right. Sorry for disturbing you." As he crept downstairs in bewilderment, Sidney prayed--he who
so rarely prayed--"O Lord, doesn't anybody but me love the land
any more? What is going to happen to us? Why, all our life comes
from the land!" He knew that in the morning he would beg Mabelle to stay for a
fortnight--and that she would not stay. It was his last night
here. So all night long, slow and silent, he walked the country
roads, looking at hemlock branches against the sky, solemnly
shaking his head and wondering why he could never rid himself of
this sinfulness of longing for the land; why he could never be
grown-up and ambitious and worthy, like his father and Mabelle
and Uncle Rob. </story>