<story title="A LETTER FROM THE QUEEN" date="1929">
Doctor Selig was an adventurer. He did not look it, certainly.
He was an amiable young bachelor with thin hair. He was
instructor in history and economics in Erasmus College, and he
had to sit on a foolish little platform and try to coax some
fifty young men and women, who were interested only in cuddling
and four-door sedans, to become hysterical about the law of
diminishing returns. But at night, in his decorous boarding house, he sometimes
smoked a pipe, which was viewed as obscene in the religious
shades of Erasmus, and he was boldly writing a book which was to
make him famous. Of course everyone is writing a book. But Selig's was
different. It was profound. How good it was can be seen from the
fact that with only three quarters of it done, it already had
fifteen hundred footnotes--such lively comments as "Vid.
J. A. S. H. S. VIII, 234 et seq." A real book, nothing
flippant or commercialized. It was called The Influence of American Diplomacy on the
Internal Policies of Paneuropa. "Paneuropa," Selig felt, was a nice and scholarly way of
saying "Europe." It would really have been an interesting book if Doctor Selig
had not believed that all literature is excellent in proportion
as it is hard to read. He had touched a world romantic and little
known. Hidden in old documents, like discovering in a desert an
oasis where girls laugh and fountains chatter and the market
place is noisy, he found the story of Franklin, who in his mousy
fur cap was the Don Juan of Paris, of Adams fighting the British
Government to prevent their recognizing the Confederacy, of
Benjamin Thompson, the Massachusetts Yankee who in 1791 was chief
counselor of Bavaria, with the title of Count Rumford. Selig was moved by these men who made the young America more
admired than she is today. And he was moved and, in a most
unscholarly way, he became a little angry as he reviewed the
story of Senator Ryder. He knew, of course, that Lafayette Ryder had prevented war
between England and America in the first reign of Grover
Cleveland; he knew that Ryder had been Secretary of State, and
Ambassador to France, courted by Paris for his wisdom, his
manners, his wit; that as Senator he had fathered (and mothered
and wet-nursed) the Ryder-Hanklin Bill, which had saved our wheat
markets; and that his two books, Possibilities of
Disarmament and The Anglo-American Empire, were not
merely glib propaganda for peace, but such inspired documents as
would have prevented the Boer War, the Spanish-American War, the
Great War, if there had been in his Victorian world a dozen men
with minds like his. This Selig knew, but he could not remember
when Ryder had died. Then he discovered with aghast astonishment that Senator Ryder
was not dead, but still alive at ninety-two, forgotten by the
country he had helped to build. Yes, Selig felt bitterly, we honor our great men in
America--sometimes for as much as two months after the particular
act of greatness that tickles us. But this is a democracy. We
mustn't let anyone suppose that because we have given him an
(undesired) parade up Broadway and a (furiously resented) soaking
of publicity on March first, he may expect to be taken seriously
on May second. The Admiral Dewey whom the press for a week labeled as a
combination of Nelson, Napoleon, and Chevalier Bayard, they later
nagged to his grave. If a dramatist has a success one season,
then may the gods help him, because for the rest of his life
everyone will attend his plays only in the hope that he will
fail. But sometimes the great glad-hearted hordes of boosters do not
drag down the idol in the hope of finding clay feet, but just
forget him with the vast, contemptuous, heavy indifference of a
hundred and twenty million people. So felt Doctor Selig, angrily, and he planned for the end of
his book a passionate resurrection of Senator Ryder. He had a shy
hope that his book would appear before the Senator's death, to
make him happy. Reading the Senator's speeches, studying his pictures in
magazine files, he felt that he knew him intimately. He could
see, as though the Senator were in the room, that tall ease, the
contrast of long thin nose, gay eyes, and vast globular brow that
made Ryder seem a combination of Puritan, clown, and benevolent
scholar. Selig longed to write to him and ask--oh, a thousand things
that only he could explain; the proposals of Lionel
Sackville-West regarding Colombia; what Queen Victoria really had
said in that famous but unpublished letter to President Harrison
about the Newfoundland fisheries. Why couldn't he write to
him? No! The man was ninety-two, and Selig had too much reverence
to disturb him, along with a wholesome suspicion that his letter
would be kicked out by the man who had once told Gladstone to go
to the devil. So forgotten was the Senator that Selig could not, at first,
find where he lived. Who's Who gave no address. Selig's superior,
Professor Munk, who was believed to know everything in the world
except the whereabouts of his last-season's straw hat, bleated,
"My dear chap, Ryder is dwelling in some cemetery! He passed
beyond, if I remember, in 1901." The mild Doctor Selig almost did homicide upon a venerable
midwestern historian. At last, in a bulletin issued by the Anti-Prohibition League,
Selig found among the list of directors: "Lafayette Ryder (form.
U. S. Sen., Sec'y State), West Wickley, Vermont." Though the
Senator's residence could make no difference to him, that night
Selig was so excited that he smoked an extra pipe of tobacco. He was planning his coming summer vacation, during which he
hoped to finish his book. The presence of the Senator drew him
toward Vermont, and in an educational magazine he found the
advertisement: "Sky Peaks, near Wickley, Vt., woodland nook with
peace and a library--congenial and intellectual company and
writers--tennis, handball, riding--nightly Sing round Old-time
Bonfire--fur. bung. low rates." That was what he wanted: a nook and a library and lots of low
rates, along with nearness to his idol. He booked a fur. bung.
for the summer, and he carried his suitcase to the station on the
beautiful day when the young fiends who through the year had
tormented him with unanswerable questions streaked off to all
parts of the world and for three tremendous months permitted him
to be a private human being. When he reached Vermont, Selig found Sky Peaks an old farm,
redecorated in a distressingly tea-roomy fashion. His single
bungalow, formerly an honest corncrib, was now painted
robin's-egg blue with yellow trimmings and christened "Shelley."
But the camp was on an upland, and air sweet from hayfield and
spruce grove healed his lungs, spotted with classroom dust. At his first dinner at Sky Peaks, he demanded of the host, one
Mr. Iddle, "Doesn't Senator Ryder live somewhere near here?" "Oh, yes, up on the mountain, about four miles south." "Hope I catch a glimpse of him some day." "I'll run you over to see him any time you'd like." "Oh, I couldn't do that! Couldn't intrude!" "Nonsense! Of course he's old, but he takes quite an interest
in the countryside. Fact, I bought this place from him and--Don't
forget the Sing tonight." At eight that evening Iddle came to drag Selig from the
security of his corncrib just as he was getting the relations of
the Locarno Pact and the Versailles Treaty beautifully
coordinated. It was that kind of Sing. "The Long, Long Trail," and "All
God's Chillun Got Shoes." (God's Chillun also possessed coats,
pants, vests, flivvers, and watermelons, interminably.) Beside
Selig at the campfire sat a young woman with eyes, a nose, a
sweater, and an athletic skirt, none of them very good or
particularly bad. He would not have noticed her, but she picked
on him: "They tell me you're in Erasmus, Doctor Selig." "Um." "Real attention to character. And after all, what benefit is
there in developing the intellect if the character isn't
developed to keep pace with it? You see, I'm in educational work
myself--oh, of course nothing like being on a college faculty,
but I teach history in the Lincoln High School at Schenectady--my
name is Selma Swanson. We must have some good talks about
teaching history, mustn't we!" "Um!" said Selig, and escaped, though it was not till he was
safely in his corncrib that he said aloud, "We must
not!" For three months he was not going to be a teacher, or heed the
horrors of character-building. He was going to be a great
scholar. Even Senator Ryder might be excited to know how powerful
an intellect was soothing itself to sleep in a corncrib four
miles away! He was grinding hard next afternoon when his host, Iddle,
stormed in with: "I've got to run in to Wickley Center. Go right
near old Ryder's. Come on. I'll introduce you to him." "Oh, no, honestly!" "Don't be silly: I imagine he's lonely. Come on!" Before Selig could make up his mind to get out of Iddle's
tempestuous flivver and walk back, they were driving up a
mountain road and past marble gateposts into an estate. Through a
damp grove of birches and maples they came out on meadows
dominated by an old brick house with a huge porch facing the
checkered valley. They stopped with a dash at the porch, and on
it Selig saw an old man sunk in a canvas deck chair and covered
with a shawl. In the shadow the light seemed to concentrate on
his bald head, like a sphere of polished vellum, and on long
bloodless hands lying as in death on shawl-draped knees. In his
eyes there was no life nor desire for it. Iddle leaped out, bellowing, "Afternoon, Senator! Lovely day,
isn't it? I've brought a man to call on you. This is Mr. Selig
of--uh--one of our colleges. I'll be back in an hour." He seized Selig's arm--he was abominably strong--and almost
pulled him out of the car. Selig's mind was one wretched puddle
of confusion. Before he could dredge any definite thought out of
it, Iddle had rattled away, and Selig stood below the porch,
hypnotized by the stare of Senator Ryder--too old for hate or
anger, but not too old for slow contempt. Not one word Ryder said. Selig cried, like a schoolboy unjustly accused: "Honestly, Senator, the last thing I wanted to do was to
intrude on you. I thought Iddle would just introduce us and take
me away. I suppose he meant well. And perhaps subconsciously I
did want to intrude! I know your Possibilities of
Disarmament and Anglo-American Empire so well--" The Senator stirred like an antediluvian owl awakening at
twilight. His eyes came to life. One expected him to croak, like
a cynical old bird, but his still voice was fastidious: "I didn't suppose anyone had looked into my books since 1910."
Painful yet gracious was the gesture with which he waved Selig to
a chair. "You are a teacher?" "Instructor in a small Ohio college. Economics and history.
I'm writing a monograph on our diplomacy, and naturally--There
are so many things that only you could explain!" "Because I'm so old?" "No! Because you've had so much knowledge and courage--perhaps
they're the same thing! Every day, literally, in working on my
book I've wished I could consult you. For instance--Tell me, sir,
didn't Secretary of State Olney really want war with England over
Venezuela? Wasn't he trying to be a tin hero?" "No!" The old man threw off his shawl. It was somehow a little
shocking to find him not in an ancient robe laced with gold, but
in a crisp linen summer suit with a smart bow tie. He sat up,
alert, his voice harsher. "No! He was a patriot. Sturdy. Honest.
Willing to be conciliatory but not flinching. Miss Tully!" At the Senator's cry, out of the wide fanlighted door of the
house slid a trained nurse. Her uniform was so starched that it
almost clattered, but she was a peony sort of young woman, the
sort who would insist on brightly mothering any male, of any age,
whether or not he desired to be mothered. She glared at the
intruding Selig; she shook her finger at Senator Ryder, and
simpered: "Now I do hope you aren't tiring yourself, else I shall have
to be ever so stern and make you go to bed. The doctor
said--" "Damn the doctor! Tell Mrs. Tinkham to bring me down the file
of letters from Richard Olney, Washington, for
1895--O-l-n-e-y--and hustle it!" Miss Tully gone, the Senator growled, "Got no more use for a
nurse than a cat for two tails! It's that mutton-headed doctor,
the old fool! He's seventy-five years old, and he hasn't had a
thought since 1888. Doctors!" He delivered an address on the art of medicine with such
vigorous blasphemy that Selig shrank in horrified admiration. And
the Senator didn't abate the blazing crimson of his oration at
the entrance of his secretary, Mrs. Tinkham, a small, narrow,
bleached, virginal widow. Selig expected her to leap off the porch and commit suicide in
terror. She didn't. She waited, she yawned gently, she handed the
Senator a manila envelope, and gently she vanished. The Senator grinned. "She'll pray at me tonight! She daren't
while you're here. There! I feel better. Good cussing is a
therapeutic agent that has been forgotten in these degenerate
days. I could teach you more about cussing than about
diplomacy--to which cussing is a most valuable aid. Now here is a
letter that Secretary Olney wrote me about the significance of
his correspondence with England." It was a page of history. Selig handled it with more reverence
than he had given to any material object in his life. He exclaimed, "Oh, yes, you used--of course I've never seen
the rest of this letter, and I can't tell you, sir, how excited I
am to see it. But didn't you use this first paragraph--it must be
about on page 276 of your Anglo-American Empire?" "I believe I did. It's not my favorite reading!" "You know, of course, that it was reprinted from your book in
the Journal of the American Society of Historical Sources
last year?" "Was it?" The old man seemed vastly pleased. He beamed at
Selig as at a young but tested friend. He chuckled, "Well, I
suppose I appreciate now how King Tut felt when they remembered
him and dug him up. . . . Miss Tully! Hey! Miss Tully, will you
be so good as to tell Martens to bring us whisky and soda, with
two glasses? Eh? Now you look here, young woman; we'll fight out
the whole question of my senile viciousness after our guest has
gone. Two glasses, I said! . . . Now about Secretary Olney. The
fact of the case was . . ." Two hours later, Senator Ryder was still talking and in that
two hours he had given Selig such unrecorded information as the
researcher could not have found in two years of study. Selig had for two hours walked with presidents and
ambassadors; he had the dinner conversation of foreign ministers,
conversations so private, so world-affecting, that they never had
been set down, even in letters. The Senator had revealed his
friendship with King Edward, and the predictions about the future
World War the King had made over a glass of mineral water. The mild college instructor, who till this afternoon had never
spoken to anyone more important than the president of a prairie
college, was exalted with a feeling that he had become the
confidant of kings and field marshals, of Anatole France and Lord
Haldane, of Sarah Bernhardt and George Meredith. He had always known but till now he had never understood that
in private these great personages were plain human beings, like
Doctor Wilbur Selig of Erasmus. It made him feel close to King
Edward to hear (though the Senator may have exaggerated) that the
King could not pronounce his own name without a German accent; it
made him feel a man of the world to learn the details of a
certain not very elevating party at which an English duke and a
German prince and a Portuguese king, accompanied by questionable
ladies, had in bibulous intimacy sung to Senator Ryder's
leadership the lyric, "How Dry I Am." During that two hours, there had been ten minutes when he had
been entirely off in a Conan Doyle spirit world. His notion of
prodigious alcoholic dissipation was a bottle of home-brewed beer
once a month. He had tried to mix himself a light whisky and
soda--he noted, with some anxiety about the proper
drinking-manners in diplomatic society, that he took
approximately one third as much whisky as the Senator. But while the old man rolled his drink in his mouth and shook
his bald head rapturously and showed no effect, Selig was
suddenly lifted six million miles above the earth, through
pink-gray clouds shot with lightning, and at that altitude he
floated dizzily while below him the Senator discoursed on the
relations of Cuban sugar to Colorado beets. And once Iddle blatted into sight, in his dirty flivver,
suggested taking him away, and was blessedly dismissed by the
Senator's curt, "Doctor Selig is staying here for dinner. I'll
send him back in my car." Dinner . . . Selig, though he rarely read fiction, had read in
some novel about "candle-flames, stilled in the twilight and
reflected in the long stretch of waxed mahogany as in a clouded
mirror--candles and roses and old silver." He had read, too,
about stag horns and heraldic shields and the swords of old
warriors. Now, actually, the Senator's dining room had neither stag horn
nor heraldic shield nor sword, and if there were still
candle-flames, there was no mahogany to reflect them, but instead
a silver stretch of damask. It was a long room, simple, with old
portraits against white panels. Yet Selig felt that he was
transported into all the romance he had ever read. The dinner was countrylike. By now, Selig expected peacocks'
tongues and caviar; he got steak and cantaloupe and corn pudding.
But there were four glasses at each plate, and along with water,
which was the familiar drink at Erasmus, he had, and timidly,
tasted sherry, Burgundy, and champagne. If Wilbur Selig of Iowa and Erasmus had known anything, it was
that champagne was peculiarly wicked, associated with light
ladies, lewd talk, and losses at roulette invariably terminating
in suicide. Yet it was just as he was nibbling at his very first
glass of champagne that Senator Ryder began to talk of his
delight in the rise of Anglo-Catholicism. No. It was none of it real. If he was exhilarated that he had been kept for dinner, he was
ecstatic when the Senator said, "Would you care to come for
dinner again day after tomorrow? Good. I'll send Martens for you
at seven-thirty. Don't dress." In a dream phantasmagoria he started home, driven by Martens,
the Senator's chauffeur-butler, with unnumbered things that had
puzzled him in writing his book made clear. When he arrived at the Sky Peaks camp, the guests were still
sitting about the dull campfire. "My!" said Miss Selma Swanson, teacher of history. "Mr. Iddle
says you've spent the whole evening with Senator Ryder. Mr. Iddle
says he's a grand person--used to be a great politician." "Oh, he was kind enough to help me about some confused
problems," murmured Selig. But as he went to bed--in a reformed corncrib--he exulted, "I
bet I could become quite a good friend of the Senator! Wouldn't
that be wonderful!" ? ? Lafayette Ryder, when his visitor--a man named Selig or
Selim--was gone, sat at the long dining table with a cigarette
and a distressingly empty cognac glass. He was meditating, "Nice
eager young chap. Provincial. But mannerly. I wonder if there
really are a few people who know that Lafe Ryder once
existed?" He rang, and the crisply coy Miss Tully, the nurse, waltzed
into the dining room, bubbling, "So we're all ready to go to bed
now, Senator!" "We are not! I didn't ring for you; I rang for Martens." "He's driving your guest." "Humph! Send in cook. I want some more brandy." "Oh, now, Daddy Ryder! You aren't going to be naughty, are
you?" "I am! And who the deuce ever told you to call me 'Daddy'?
Daddy!" "You did. Last year." "I don't--this year. Bring me the brandy bottle." "If I do, will you go to bed then?" "I will not!" "But the doctor--" "The doctor is a misbegotten hound with a face like a fish.
And other things. I feel cheerful tonight. I shall sit up late.
Till All Hours." They compromised on eleven-thirty instead of All Hours, and
one glass of brandy instead of the bottle. But, vexed at having
thus compromised--as so often, in ninety-odd years, he had been
vexed at having compromised with Empires--the Senator was (said
Miss Tully) very naughty in his bath. "I swear," said Miss Tully afterward, to Mrs. Tinkham, the
secretary, "if he didn't pay so well, I'd leave that horrid old
man tomorrow. Just because he was a politician or something,
once, to think he can sass a trained nurse!" "You would not!" said Mrs. Tinkham. "But he is
naughty." And they did not know that, supposedly safe in his four-poster
bed, the old man was lying awake, smoking a cigarette and
reflecting: "The gods have always been much better to me than I have
deserved. Just when I thought I was submerged in a flood of women
and doctors, along comes a man for companion, a young man who
seems to be a potential scholar, and who might preserve for the
world what I tried to do. Oh, stop pitying yourself, Lafe Ryder!
. . . I wish I could sleep." Senator Ryder reflected, the next morning, that he had
probably counted too much on young Selig. But when Selig came
again for dinner, the Senator was gratified to see how quickly he
was already fitting into a house probably more elaborate than any
he had known. And quite easily he told of what the Senator
accounted his uncivilized farm boyhood, his life in a state
university. "So much the better that he is naïve, not one of these
third-secretary cubs who think they're cosmopolitan because they
went to Groton," considered the Senator. "I must do something for
him." Again he lay awake that night, and suddenly he had what seemed
to him an inspired idea. "I'll give young Selig a lift. All this money and no one but
hang-jawed relatives to give it to! Give him a year of freedom.
Pay him--he probably earns twenty-five hundred a year; pay him
five thousand and expenses to arrange my files. If he makes good,
I'd let him publish my papers after I pass out. The letters from
John Hay, from Blaine, from Choate! No set of unpublished
documents like it in America! It would make the boy! "Mrs. Tinkham would object. Be jealous. She might quit.
Splendid! Lafe, you arrant old coward, you've been trying to get
rid of that woman without hurting her feelings for three years!
At that, she'll probably marry you on your dying bed!" He chuckled, a wicked, low, delighted sound, the old man alone
in darkness. "Yes, and if he shows the quality I think he has, leave him a
little money to carry on with while he edits the letters. Leave
him--let's see." It was supposed among Senator Ryder's lip-licking relatives
and necessitous hangers-on that he had left of the Ryder fortune
perhaps two hundred thousand dollars. Only his broker and he knew
that he had by secret investment increased it to a million, these
ten years of dark, invalid life. He lay planning a new will. The present one left half his
fortune to his university, a quarter to the town of Wickley for a
community center, the rest to nephews and nieces, with ten
thousand each for the Tully, the Tinkham, Martens, and the
much-badgered doctor, with a grave proviso that the doctor should
never again dictate to any patient how much he should smoke. Now to Doctor Selig, asleep and not even dream-warned in his
absurd corncrib, was presented the sum of twenty-five thousand
dollars, the blessings of an old man, and a store of historical
documents which could not be priced in coin. In the morning, with a headache, and very strong with Miss
Tully about the taste of the aspirin--he suggested that she had
dipped it in arsenic--the Senator reduced Selig to five thousand,
but that night it went back to twenty-five. How pleased the young man would be. ? ? Doctor Wilbur Selig, on the first night when he had
unexpectedly been bidden to stay for dinner with Senator Ryder,
was as stirred as by--What would most stir Doctor Wilbur
Selig? A great play? A raise in salary? An Erasmus football
victory? At the second dinner, with the house and the hero less novel
to him, he was calmly happy, and zealous about getting
information. The third dinner, a week after, was agreeable
enough, but he paid rather more attention to the squab in
casserole than to the Senator's revelations about the Baring
panic, and he was a little annoyed that the Senator insisted (so
selfishly) on his staying till midnight, instead of going home to
bed at a reasonable hour like ten--with, perhaps, before
retiring, a few minutes of chat with that awfully nice bright
girl, Miss Selma Swanson. And through that third dinner he found himself reluctantly
critical of the Senator's morals. Hang it, here was a man of good family, who had had a chance
to see all that was noblest and best in the world and why did he
feel he had to use such bad language, why did he drink so much?
Selig wasn't (he proudly reminded himself) the least bit
narrow-minded. But an old man like this ought to be thinking of
making his peace; ought to be ashamed of cursing like a
stableboy. He reproved himself next morning, "He's been mighty nice to
me. He's a good old coot--at heart. And of course a great
statesman." But he snapped back to irritation when he had a telephone call
from Martens, the chauffeur: "Senator Ryder would like you to
come over for tea this afternoon. He has something to show
you." "All right, I'll be over." Selig was curt about it, and he raged, "Now, by thunder, of
all the thoughtless, selfish old codgers! As if I didn't have
anything to do but dance attendance on him and amuse him! And
here I'd planned to finish a chapter this afternoon! 'Course he
does give me some inside information, but still--as if I needed
all the tittle-tattle of embassies for my book! Got all the stuff
I need now. And how am I to get over there? The selfish old hound
never thinks of that! Does he suppose I can afford a car to go
over? I'll have to walk! Got half a mind not to go!" The sulkiness with which he came to tea softened when the
Senator began to talk about the Queen Victoria letter. Historians knew that during the presidency of Benjamin
Harrison, when there was hostility between America and Britain
over the seizure by both sides of fishing boats, Queen Victoria
had written in her own hand to President Harrison. It was
believed that she deplored her royal inability to appeal directly
to Parliament, and suggested his first taking the difficulty up
with Congress. But precisely what was in this unofficial letter,
apparently no one knew. This afternoon Senator Ryder said placidly, "I happen to have
the original of the letter in my possession." "Perhaps some day I'll give you a glimpse of it. I think I
have the right to let you quote it." Selig was electrified. It would be a sensation--he
would be a sensation! He could see his book, and himself, on the
front pages. But the Senator passed on to a trivial, quite
improper anecdote about a certain Brazilian ambassador and a
Washington milliner, and Selig was irritable again. Darn it, it
was indecent for a man of over ninety to think of such things!
And why the deuce was he so skittish and secretive about his old
letter? If he was going to show it, why not do it? So perhaps Doctor Selig of Erasmus was not quite so gracious
as a Doctor Selig of Erasmus should have been when, at parting,
the old man drew from under his shawl a worn blue-gray pamphlet,
and piped: "I'm going to give you this, if you'd like it. There's only
six copies left in the world, I believe. It's the third one of my
books--privately printed and not ordinarily listed with the
others. It has, I imagine, a few things in it the historians
don't know; the real story of the Paris commune." "Oh, thanks," Selig said brusquely and, to himself, in the
Senator's car, he pointed out that it showed what an egotistic
old codger Ryder was to suppose that just because he'd written
something, it must be a blooming treasure! He glanced into the book. It seemed to have information. But
he wasn't stirred, for it was out of line with what he had
decided were the subjects of value to Doctor Selig and,
therefore, of general interest. After tea, now, it was too late for work before dinner and he
had Ryder's chauffeur set him down at Tredwell's General Store,
which had become for members of the Sky Peaks camp a combination
of department store, post office and café, where they
drank wild toasts in lemon pop. Miss Selma Swanson was there, and Selig laughingly treated her
to chewing gum, Attaboy Peanut Candy Rolls, and seven fishhooks.
They had such a lively time discussing that funny Miss Elkington
up at the camp. When he started off, with Miss Swanson, he left the Senator's
book behind him in the store. He did not miss it till he had gone
to bed. Two days afterward, the Senator's chauffeur again telephoned
an invitation to tea for that afternoon, but this time Selig
snapped, "Sorry! Tell the Senator I unfortunately shan't be able
to come!" "Just a moment, please," said the chauffeur. "The Senator
wishes to know if you care to come to dinner tomorrow
evening--eight--he'll send for you." "Well--Yes, tell him I'll be glad to come." After all, dinner here at Sky Peaks was pretty bad, and he'd
get away early in the evening. He rejoiced in having his afternoon free for work. But the
confounded insistence of the Senator had so bothered him that he
banged a book on his table and strolled outside. The members of the camp were playing One Old Cat, with Selma
Swanson, very jolly in knickerbockers, as cheer leader. They
yelped at Selig to join them and, after a stately refusal or two,
he did. He had a good time. Afterward he pretended to wrestle
with Miss Swanson--she had the supplest waist and, seen close up,
the moistest eyes. So he was glad that he had not wasted his
afternoon listening to that old bore. The next afternoon, at six, a splendid chapter done, he went
off for a climb up Mount Poverty with Miss Swanson. The late sun
was so rich on pasture, pine clumps, and distant meadows, and
Miss Swanson was so lively in tweed skirt and brogues--but the
stockings were silk--that he regretted having promised to be at
the Senator's at eight. "But of course I always keep my promises," he reflected
proudly. They sat on a flat rock perched above the valley, and he
observed in rather a classroom tone, "How remarkable that light
is--the way it picks out that farmhouse roof, and then the shadow
of those maples on the grass. Did you ever realize that it's less
the shape of things than the light that gives a landscape
beauty?" "No, I don't think I ever did. That's so. It's the light! My,
how observant you are!" "Oh, no, I'm not. I'm afraid I'm just a bookworm." "Oh, you are not! Of course you're tremendously scholarly--my,
I've learned so much about study from you--but then, you're so
active--you were just a circus playing One Old Cat yesterday. I
do admire an all-round man." At seven-thirty, holding her firm hand, he was saying, "But
really, there's so much that I lack that--But you do think I'm
right about it's being so much manlier not to drink like that old
man? By the way, we must start back." At a quarter to eight, after he had kissed her and apologized
and kissed her, he remarked, "Still, he can wait a while--won't
make any difference." At eight: "Golly, it's so late! Had no idea. Well, I better
not go at all now. I'll just phone him this evening and say I got
balled up on the date. Look! Let's go down to the lake and dine
on the wharf at the boathouse, just you and I." "Oh, that would be grand!" said Miss Selma Swanson. Lafayette Ryder sat on the porch that, along with his dining
room and bedroom, had become his entire world, and waited for the
kind young friend who was giving back to him the world he had
once known. His lawyer was coming from New York in three days,
and there was the matter of the codicil to his will. But--the
Senator stirred impatiently--this money matter was grubby; he had
for Selig something rarer than money--a gift for a scholar. He looked at it and smiled. It was a double sheet of thick
bond, with "Windsor Castle" engraved at the top. Above this
address was written in a thin hand: "To my friend L. Ryder, to
use if he ever sees fit. Benj. Harrison." The letter began, "To His Excellency, the President," and it
was signed, "Victoria R." In a few lines between inscription and
signature there was a new history of the great Victoria and of
the Nineteenth Century. . . . Dynamite does not come in large
packages. The old man tucked the letter into a pocket down beneath the
rosy shawl that reached up to his gray face. Miss Tully rustled out, to beg, "Daddy, you won't take more
than one cocktail tonight? The doctor says it's so bad for
you!" "Heh! Maybe I will and maybe I won't! What time is it?" "A quarter to eight." "Doctor Selig will be here at eight. If Martens doesn't have
the cocktails out on the porch three minutes after he gets back,
I'll skin him. And you needn't go looking for the cigarettes in
my room, either! I've hidden them in a brand-new place, and I'll
probably sit up and smoke till dawn. Fact; doubt if I shall go to
bed at all. Doubt if I'll take my bath." He chuckled as Miss Tully wailed, "You're so naughty!" The Senator need not have asked the time. He had groped down
under the shawl and looked at his watch every five minutes since
seven. He inwardly glared at himself for his foolishness in
anticipating his young friend, but--all the old ones were
gone. That was the devilishness of living so many years. Gone, so
long. People wrote idiotic letters to him, still, begging for his
autograph, for money, but who save this fine young Selig had come
to him? . . . So long now! At eight, he stirred, not this time like a drowsy old owl, but
like an eagle, its lean head thrusting forth from its pile of
hunched feathers, ready to soar. He listened for the car. At ten minutes past, he swore, competently. Confound that
Martens! At twenty past, the car swept up the driveway. Out of it
stepped only Martens, touching his cap, murmuring, "Very sorry,
sir. Mr. Selig was not at the camp." "Then why the devil didn't you wait?" "I did, sir, as long as I dared." "Poor fellow! He may have been lost on the mountain. We must
start a search!" "Very sorry, sir, but if I may say so, as I was driving back
past the foot of the Mount Poverty trail, I saw Mr. Selig with a
young woman, sir, and they were talking and laughing and going
away from the camp, sir. I'm afraid--" "Very well. That will do." "I'll serve dinner at once, sir. Do you wish your cocktail out
here?" "I won't have one. Send Miss Tully." When the nurse had fluttered to him, she cried out with alarm.
Senator Ryder was sunk down into his shawl. She bent over him to
hear his whisper: "If it doesn't keep you from your dinner, my dear, I think I'd
like to be helped up to bed. I don't care for anything to eat. I
feel tired." While she was anxiously stripping the shawl from him he looked
long, as one seeing it for the last time, at the darkening
valley. But as she helped him up, he suddenly became active. He
snatched from his pocket a stiff double sheet of paper and tore
it into fragments which he fiercely scattered over the porch with
one sweep of his long arm. Then he collapsed over her shoulder.</story>