<story title="HELLVILLE, U.S.A." date="1898">
I. FATHER AND SON
"Then I am to understand definitely that you won't?"
"It isn't won't, dad; it's more like can't. It's no use. After all, you know, there are some things in the world that are better than money—"
Stanley Raeburn senior threw himself back in his chair and stared, or it might be more correct to say he glared, at his son, who was standing on the hearthrug in front of an open fire-grate in the library of one of the big brown- stone houses overlooking Central Park, New York.
It was a sentiment which would have been heresy from any one's lips, but coming from those of his son it was simply flat blasphemy.
It meant not only the negation of his own life-lesson, a lesson which he had learnt through much labour and strife from the days when he had thought ten dollars a week a princely salary to those later ones in which his millions were accumulating so rapidly that he couldn't always keep track even of the interest on them. It was also an unmistakable notification of the utter failure of the task that he had undertaken and prosecuted with only a little less interest than that with which he had devoted himself to the piling-up of millions.
Ever since his son had reached what he considered to be reasoning years, he had done everything that a man in command of practically unlimited resources could do to make him a duplicate of himself to make the boy grow up into a man whose first and only life-object should be the multiplication of the millions that he would inherit and the increase of the power into which those millions could be translated.
He himself had started out as a lawyer's office-boy in West 43rd Street on three dollars a week. He was now a United States senator with money and influence enough behind him to justify him in aspiring to the presidency itself. Given, therefore, that his son began, as he might do, where he himself left off, how far might he not go? And here he was talking of losing all this for the sake of a pretty face and a pair of soft brown eyes with a gleam of gold in them belonging to a girl in one of his own offices who worked a typewriter for little more than double the salary he began on.
There were other things which, if possible, were even worse ridiculous theories on social and political subjects, which somehow, in spite of all his care, this prodigal son of his had managed to absorb; wild and impossible dreams of what he called honesty and purity in public affairs; blank idiotcy which would bring any respectably conducted state to ruin in a fortnight. But these he, Raeburn senior, considered to be quite secondary to the other disturbing cause, and it was just here, as subsequent events showed, that he went absolutely wrong.
"Look here, Stanley, if you're going to talk like that, I'll have to ask you to find another audience. There may be some things better than money, but Fd like to know how you're going to get them without the money, unless you're going to get other things with them in the way of shabby clothes and short meals that you'd rather be without. You know, one has to pay a very long price for true love and domestic felicity on a few dollars a week, and that's a price you can't pay in cash, mind. You've got to pay it with your own life and the lives of those you think you love.
"No, no, Stanley," he went on, his voice softening a little, "it won't do. Those sort of things are all very well when they're made into poetry or slush of that sort, but they're hard and ugly facts to knock your head against and break your heart over in real life. There's time to turn back still. Won't you do it, Stanley lad?"
"It isn't won't, dad, as I said before," he answered with a little break in his voice; for this was almost the first time he could remember seeing this man of iron and gold who called him son soften even for a moment. "It isn't won't; it's can't. Even if I could give up Lucy to please you, that wouldn't make any difference to my convictions; and you know, after all, a man can no more help his convictions than he can help his appetite. Put it as low down as you like, and you must still admit that you can no more help thinking a certain way at a certain time than you can help being hungry at a certain time.
"You, for instance, think that money is everything, or at any rate essential to everything worth having. Suppose you woke up tomorrow morning in a world that had no use for money. You'd think it was a lunatic asylum, and for some time you'd go on thinking as you do about money. You couldn't help it any more than I can help my convictions about the worse than worthlessness of it when it's used as it is here—"
"And everywhere else; don't forget that, young man."
Raeburn senior's voice was harder now than ever.
"Don't make any mistake about the size of the job you've taken in hand. It isn't New York or the United States that you've got to reform; it's the whole world and a trifle of fifteen hundred million human beings sitting tight on the traditions of more centuries than the histories tell us anything about. It's a big order even for a man who thinks himself a deputy Providence to take on."
The sarcasm stung Stanley a little, for he wasn't quite thirty yet, and his moral skin was still thin and sensitive. He flushed slightly and pulled himself up, and replied in a tone that was almost as hard and cutting as his father's in fact, there was a curious sort of a family likeness in it
"If you'll allow me to take the frills off that last remark of yours and turn the theory into fact, the United States is just now putting in a ruinous tender for that self-same job; and you, I am sorry to say, are one of the boss contractors."
"What the devil do you mean, sir? Have you forgotten that you're talking to your father?"
"I hadn't; but I might do if you forget that you're speaking to your son. What I mean is this—"
"I don't care a damn what you mean, sir!" his father almost shouted as he sprang from his seat and faced him as a man faces another who has made him an enemy for life. "What I mean is this: In this house there are millions for you, and the possibility of all that those millions and your own brains can buy. Outside there's the street and the clothes you stand up in. Here you're my son, with a passport to the best society in the world. There you're an outcast, a tramp without a dollar in your pocket, and with every door shut against you. That's your choice, and you've got to take it right here. Will you go or stay?"
"I'll go, dad, not because I want to, but because I can't stop on those terms. Good-bye."
He held out his hand, but his father turned his back on him, perhaps because he wouldn't shake hands, possibly for another reason. Stanley put his hand in his pocket and walked towards the door. As he opened it with his left hand, he looked back. His father had gone to the window, and was staring out over the park through a little mist that somehow obscured the brightness of the clear winter day. If he had been looking the other way for the moment, many things of great concern might never have happened. But the fates appeared to have made up their minds, and the millionaire didn't look round until he heard the door close. Then he took out his handkerchief and wiped his eyes, and reproached his own and all other prodigal sons in language that would not have been tolerated even in the United States Senate.
Then he turned to the window again, and as he did so he heard the front door close with a very decided bang. He knew what had happened, but somehow he couldn't get away from the window. His son walked past with his hands in the pockets of his ulster.
That was all he had taken with him. He wasn't even carrying a handbag, and he was looking straight in front of him.
"If he'd only look up even now!" the old man caught himself saying.
But no, the prodigal walked straight on without looking either up or back.
"Damn the boy!" said Stanley Raeburn senior under his breath, but with a stamp on the floor that added considerable emphasis to the words. And then he turned away and dropped into a big armchair by the fire, and presently he had taken out his handkerchief again.
II. FROM WEALTH TO WORK
Stanley Raeburn's troubles had only just begun when he shut the door of his father's house behind him. He knew that, of course, perfectly well; still, it was rather a curious sensation. An hour ago he could have drawn his cheque for fifty thousand dollars. Ten minutes ago a few words of submission would have earned him five million dollars in hard cash, for that was the splendid price which his father had offered him for his love and his convictions. Now he had less than ten dollars in his pocket, and he had scruples about keeping even that. He had a cheque-book, too, and a substantial sum to his credit at the bank, but that was no longer his.
He didn't even know where he was going.
In point of fact, he had nowhere to go to, although his footsteps were instinctively turning in the direction of his club. As this thought struck him, his rebellious soul rose in even more fervent revolt. From this outside standpoint, this chilly isolation which he had so suddenly reached, he could look back and see how poor a creature he had really been a sort of gilt-edged pensioner absolutely dependent for his necessaries and his luxuries on the bounty of a man who made his money by methods which he himself considered little short of criminal. True, that man was his father; but that didn't make much difference, after all, especially as he was his father now in little more than name.
Then there came a queer sort of exultation. He had grown up, as it were, in the last few minutes. He would be a man soon, and he might as well set about being so at once.
He went to his club and sat down in the writing-room. He took a long envelope out of the case and put his half-used cheque-book into it. Then he took a sheet of note-paper and wrote on it the ominous letters, "I.0.U." He next went deliberately through his pockets, and when he had done this, he wrote, "Eight dollars seventy-five cents" under the letters, and signed his name to it. He put this in with the cheque-book, sealed the envelope, and addressed it to his father. Just as he had done so, he heard a voice behind him saying, in a low tone adjusted to the character of the room
"Morning, Raeburn! How do? You're out early. Is it too early for a cocktail? I've got some fresh news about this European business for you when you've finished."
"Ah, Sinclair, is that you?" said Raeburn, getting up and facing round with the envelope still in his hand. "You are just the one man in all New York that I wanted to see most. Cocktail? "Well, it's a bit early, but never mind. Come along; I want to have a talk with you."
When they got in the smoking-room and were comfortably ensconced in a couple of cosy, deep-seated armchairs, Raeburn felt another curious sort of thrill run through his moral being. This was in all probability his last appearance on the stage of life as a rich man, or at any rate as the son of one. To-morrow, that afternoon, perhaps, he might be somebody's paid servant, possibly, indeed, as he hoped, the subordinate of the man who was sitting opposite to him; for Frank H. Sinclair was the news editor of the New York Tribune, and Stanley Raeburn, ex-heir to the richest man in New York State, was going to ask him for a job.
"Let me pay for these," he said, as the boy brought the cocktails and put them down on the table.
It was a survival of the involuntarily generous instinct of the rich man, and as he gave it voice he took his last five-dollar bill out of his pocket.
"Not quite!" said Sinclair. "I think I mentioned cocktails first, didn't I? Besides, what do you want to pay for? Don't you have a bar account?"
"Great Scott, so I have!" said Raeburn, looking up with quite a scared expression on his face. At a rough-and-ready guess, the said bar account stood somewhere between seventy and eighty dollars, and Sinclair's casual remark had suddenly brought him face to face with the very awkward fact.
"Why, what's the matter?" said Sinclair. "You look like a man who has just had a protested cheque given back to him."
The waiter had picked up the five-dollar bill and gone away with it, and so Raeburn was able to say, without prejudice
"That's just it, Sinclair. You've got there in once. If I gave a cheque for the amount of my bar account, it would be protested. See here," he went on, holding up the envelope; "that contains my cheque-book and an I. 0. U. for eight dollars seventy-five cents, and you see it's addressed to my father. The cold-drawn truth of it is that the old man fired me this morning, and the person that you see here in this chair is the latest and most up-to-date edition of the Prodigal Son."
"You you don't mean that, Raeburn, do you ? You, the heir to the Lord only knows how many millions, a prodigal! I'm< accustomed to pretty steep things, you know, at the Tribune office, but really that—"
"But that is a solid, hard-boiled fact, I regret to say," replied Raeburn, with a not very mirthful laugh.
"Things came to a head this morning, and the old man and I finally split up over love and principle. In cold figures, he wanted me to swop them for so many millions down and the prospect of more to come. And I couldn't. He said I wouldn't, but the truth is I couldn't. He asked me to stop in the house and pursue the pleasant avocation of a millionaire, or go out into the street. As the result, I'm here, and now I am going to ask you for a job."
Sinclair looked at him steadily for a moment or two; then he bit the end of a cigar, lit it, and got up. Raeburn was rather encouraged than the reverse at seeing him start off for a walk to the other end of the room, for he knew him of old for a man who thought best on his legs. The waiter brought back his change, and with a further access of recklessness he pushed a quarter towards him and told him to bring a cigar. By the time he had got it alight, Sinclair plumped himself down in his chair, and said, with the abruptness of a man who has got something to say and wants to get it said
"Look here, Raeburn, you know the attitude the Tribune has taken up on this Imperial America business, and I know your views on the subject. They're the best, soundest, and straightest I've heard, and they also happen to be the Tribune's, or something like them. Now, you've not been much use, if you'll excuse me saying so, as the heir-apparent to more millions than any man ought to have, but I fancy you would be a good deal of use as a man who had to work for his own living.
"I take it that you've got your heart pretty well in this business, or you wouldn't have thrown away several tons of gold for the sake of it. Now, here's your chance. I shall be on duty pretty nearly all night to-night. My rooms are at your service. Go when you like and write us a leader on the situation. Never mind about literary style or anything of that sort; just put your heart and brain on paper, and you'll find that it will pan out all right so far as the reading public's concerned. I've a pretty good sort of an idea of the stuff that you'll turn out when you get warm, and stuff like that's worth money. If you want a hundred dollars on account, you can have it now."
"It won't be worth that/' said Raeburn, "but I'll do the work, and be glad to do it. In fact, I would, if I were still my father's heir; but as I do frankly want some money, I'll take twenty to begin with, and you shall have the article to-morrow. Then, if you think it's worth more, you can give me the balance. It is very good of you to offer me the use of your room, but I don't think I'll be able to accept that either.
"No, you needn't look offended. It isn't pride. You know," he went on with something suspiciously like a blush, "Lucy's a typist, and she has a machine of her own.
"I've got to go and see her and the old lady on the subject of the cataclysm, and I think I can talk that article better than I could write it; so, you see, as the old man will probably fire her as he has fired me, I may as well share the job with her."
"Excellent!" said Sinclair, with a laugh. "There is a combination of practicality and sentiment about that idea which augurs well for your future, young man. What a pity you were born in the purple or the yellow I suppose we should call it here. If you'd only had to earn your own living from the start, you might have been doing something quite good by this time. Anyhow, you may be some one pretty soon, and, by way of a start, if you do this article as I expect you will do it, I guess you'll be able to consider yourself fixed on the literary staff of the Tribune till you're looking around for a better job. Now let us go down to Delmonico's and have a bite. We shall just get there about lunch-time, and meanwhile I'll give you a few pointers about your new trade. To tell you the truth, boy, I can't find it in my heart to feel sorry that this has happened, and I'm glad to see that you don't seem very much broken up over it. You've only been a man around town so far. Now you're going to be a man; and there's a heap of difference between those two, I can tell you."
III. SOME STRAIGHT TALK
Miss Lucy Carlyle had received the tidings of the evil and the good that had befallen the prodigal son from his own lips in chilly, troubled, and ominous silence. Her mother had heard them with broken exclamations intermingled with tears, not only for his sake, but for her daughter's, for she knew that Raeburn senior would consider Lucy at least half as guilty as the prodigal, and act accordingly. When he had finished his story, he paused for a moment or two, and then he said, in a somewhat disconcerted tone
"Well, Lucy, little girl, haven't you anything of a comforting sort to say? Don't you think I've done pretty well, considering ?"
Her reply was gentle in speech, but scarcely comforting in substance.
"I don't think any son can do well when he quarrels with his father, Stanley. If your father thinks that I am one reason for what he is to some extent justified in considering your obstinacy, you can write and tell him that that reason no longer exists."
"What do you mean, Lucy?" he said, taking a quick couple of strides towards her. "Surely you don't mean—"
"I mean, Stanley," she said, getting up from her chair and facing him with her hands behind her back, "that a great deal of what you tell me your father said is perfectly correct from his point of view, and I will not marry a man if that marriage is to separate a father from his only son. The money is nothing perhaps worse than nothing let him give it to charity, or found a university with it. We can do without it, or, if we can't, we ought to; but if you want me, you will only get me on the day that your father puts my hand into yours. Don't you think I'm right, mother?"
"Yes, dear, quite right, I suppose," said Mrs. Carlyle, rather weakly, "but I think it's very hard and unjust on both of you and all those millions, too! When you're as old as I am, you'll know the value of them. But I suppose there's no help for it."
"None, except that one, as far as I'm concerned," said Lucy, decidedly. "I'm very sorry, Stanley," she went on more meltingly, and with a suspicion of mist dimming the golden gleam of her brown eyes, "but I really couldn't. You know that I shall never love any one else than you, and therefore I don't want to marry any one else; but to know that by marrying you I had estranged you for ever from your father would just make me miserable; and, you know, people don't marry for that, at least not with their eyes open."
Stanley knew her well enough to feel quite certain that nothing could be gained by pushing the point any further at present, so he took the wiser course of seeming to bow to the inevitable, and said, more cheerfully than she had quite expected "Well, Lucy, I must respect your sentiments, I suppose, however little I like them, and somehow or other the old man will have to get reconciled, that's all. But meanwhile, after what you have been merciful enough to say, there needn't be any violent change in our present relations. We can still be sweethearts, I suppose?"
She looked up at him in such a way that somehow the next moment she found herself in his arms, and the provisional bargain was struck in a more decisive fashion than by word of mouth. Then, when the matter was settled, he said
"Lucy, I want you to be something else—"
"It's impossible!" she said, drawing back from him. ldquo;Haven't I just told you, and haven't I promised, at least till you're reconciled—"
"Oh, I don't mean that!" he said, with a laugh at her sudden change of manner. "What I was going to say is, I want you to be my typist."
"What on earth do you mean, Stanley?"
"Exactly what I say. You see, it's this way. Pending the reconciliation, the old man is practically certain to fire you out. That's him; he can't help it. Meanwhile, I've got this work for the Tribune, and, from what Sinclair says, it will be pretty well paid. Now, I feel pretty certain that I can talk it better than I can write, and I can do more of it, too, in a given time. Your views and mine are about the same on this general war question, and so the work oughtn't to be distasteful to you. Now, I've promised to do this article to- night, so you just get out your machine and start right away while I'm in the humour."
It was an eminently practical proposal, and as such commended itself very strongly to Miss Lucy's sound intelligence, so without another word she just went to her work-table, uncovered her typewriter, put the paper in the carriage, and then looked up and said primly
"I'm quite ready, sir."
Something else happened before they got to work, but it didn't take very long, and then Stanley began walking up and down the sitting-room, and Mrs. Carlyle settled herself with a vague, wondering interest to listen to what was coming. Presently it came. Stanley Raeburn's natural abilities had been trained and developed by the finest education that money could buy, both in the New and the Old World. He was naturally concise in thought, and fluent in speech, which is just what a newspaper writer should be. Besides, both his heart and his head were full of his subject; and when the article appeared in the columns of the Tribune the next morning, its writer's reputation was already made.
Briefly described, it was an appeal to the American people to undertake the reform of the United States, and it was the very model of what such an appeal ought to have been. Where it appealed to the head, it was cold, terse, and almost brutal in its ruthless outspokenness; and where it appealed to the heart, the words burnt and the sentences palpitated with an emotion which rang as true as the notes of an angel-song. It therefore reached the American head as quickly as it reached the American heart, and the response was instantaneous.
The American head had known for a long time that the United States politics were a mere matter of payment; that the millionaires could have any kind of politics and even any kind of laws that they chose to pay for; and that the United States politicians, from the President himself to the most lowdown Irish municipal boss, were merely puppets who danced as the real rulers of the country pulled the golden wires on which they were strung; but this was the first time that the American heart had felt what the American head knew, and the effect of this physiological conjunction was as startling as it was momentous.
One or two brief quotations from this memorable article will not be out of place here, marking as they do the beginnings of a popular upheaval second only in importance, if even that, to the Civil War itself, and they will also show something of the reasons for the startling events that were to follow their publication.
"By the American people is here to be understood everything that is strong, sound, and good between the Canadian boundary and the Gulf of Mexico. On the other hand, what the outside world understands by the United States is only a political expression the label of an organization of capital and corruption which has got itself firmly planted in the cab of the locomotive America, and, while the engine does all the real work, drives it whithersoever it pleases, and at any speed it likes."
"So-called American newspapers, with about as much real patriotism in them as you find with a microscope in the columns of the Irish World, have been shouting about ' the Nation/ about its armies and its fleets, its glorious traditions, and its ability and willingness to take entire charge of the Western Hemisphere, together with as much of the Eastern as it can lay hold of, and to cut up into very small pieces any nation or alliance of nations which is not prepared to hold the New Monroe Doctrine a little higher in authority than the Ten Commandments and the Sermon on the Mount. So far, the American people have allowed themselves to be amused, and, to a certain extent, misled by all this portentous cackling. It tickled the so-called national vanity, and, as the rest of the world only took notice of it in newspaper paragraphs, it did not come very expensive.
"But within the last few months, as you know, a tremendous change has been wrought. We have fought Spain and crushed her not, perhaps, a feat to be very proud of, but still a fact, and one that has been achieved only at the cost of many thousands of American lives and with victory has come disillusion. When the war began, our rulers solemnly affirmed that we were fighting only to free the oppressed Cuban, and that, Cuba once free, we would retire. We were fighting in the cause of humanity, and not as aggressors greedy for spoil and territory. But we have freed the Cubans only to find that they never deserved to be free save under the government of the strong hand. We have taken Cuba, Porto Kico, the Canaries, and the Philippines, and are going to keep them. As a consequence, the world has found us out. It is plain now that we did not fight Spain to free the victims of her tyranny, but to take her territory from her by force. In short, to do a vulgar steal.
"In other words, let our politicians and newspaper men call it what they like, after entering into a quarrel that was not our own, and shedding the blood of thousands of men to humiliate a proud nation which was only standing up for its own rights, we have forgotten our professions of humanity, and embarked on a career of foreign conquest which, if continued as these men would continue it, must inevitably bring us into collision with the armed millions of Europe, with an alliance of the greatest military and naval Powers of the world Powers with hundreds of warships and millions of men at their command, to which we can only oppose our score or so of battleships and cruisers and our levies of untrained men.
"There are those who think that Great Britain should, and would, stand by us in our defiance of Europe. Great Britain knows better, and so do we. In defence of common rights, the Anglo-Saxon race would stand shoulder to shoulder against any combination, but to expect England to plunge her millions of subjects into war for the sake of helping us to make foreign conquests, which we solemnly promised we would never make, is to expect her rulers to commit an international crime, for which defeat and ruin would not be too light a punishment.
"We have fought Spain and conquered her, we have given freedom to the oppressed, and we have the right and the power to say and secure that there shall be no more oppression throughout the Western Hemisphere. Let us be content with that and such material recompense as we can get without becoming oppressors ourselves.
"As a people, we have no just quarrel with any other on the face of the earth. No one has injured us, no one has insulted us. If any one had, why then we should have fought that some one rightly and justly to the last man in the field and the last dollar in the treasury. But this is not the case now, and what we have to ask ourselves is whether the American people is going to allow the United States to brag and swagger and bounce it into a war in which it could only win curses by victory, and ridicule by defeat.
"In a word, are the American people prepared to fight half the Powers of the world single-handed for the sake of maintaining a principle which they have continuously and consistently denied and repudiated ever since they became a nation?"
IV. PRESIDENT RAEBURN
By nightfall, Stanley Raeburn was the most famous man between the Atlantic and the Pacific. His voice had rung like a trumpet-blast throughout the length and breadth of the land. At his bidding the American people had awakened from the dream of subjection to the capitalists at home and empty defiance of the world abroad.
With those two terrible words, "universal war," ringing in its ears, it had opened its eyes and seen the red gulf of battle yawning at its feet. It had looked down into that awful chaos of blood and flame and misery and disaster, out of which it was impossible that it could take either honour or profit; and then it turned round and quietly but steadfastly refused to allow either its politicians to goad it or its Spread-Eagle paragraphists to cajole it into taking the fatal step which, once taken, could never be retraced save through unspeakable shame and dishonour.
In a word, it had grasped Stanley Raeburn's single, simple argument firmly, and had determined to abide by it.
It saw very clearly that the reverse was not only impossible, but ridiculous, and it saw it all the more clearly when that night a second message went forth over the wires from the Tribune office calling upon the American people to ask the United States whether they seriously considered themselves strong enough to sweep the united fleets of Europe off the sea, and, having done that, to invade the Continent vid Spain, and annex the Old World?
Incidentally, the message reminded them that there would be about five hundred ships of war and some ten millions of men to be dealt with, and these would not be mobs of amateur soldiers such as had confronted each other in the Civil War, but armies of highly trained professional soldiers with generations of warfare behind them, and commanded by the ripest military genius that the world could produce.
It was in vain that the politicians raved themselves speechless about the "imperial destinies" of the American people, and it was equally in vain that the Spread-Eagle editors howled their battle-cries and danced their war-dances to the last limits of the scarehead's capabilities. The American people had got its facts solid, and the next day, with something like a sixty million voice- power, it told the United States in unmistakable tones to come down. And the United States came down just as the French, German, and Eussian ministers were preparing to leave Washington.
It so happened, not by any means unnaturally, that this national cataclysm, for it was really nothing else, occurred at the same time as the nominations for the presidency. It had, in fact, been arranged to come off then, just as Mr. Cleveland's Venezuelan message had been engineered; but it also chanced that the day on which the decision was arrived at was Stanley Raeburn's thirtieth birthday, and this fact made him eligible for nomination. In the then state of American feeling and opinion there was no one else possible, and so the Young Tribune of the People, as he had already come to be called, was nominated in such fashion as promised an overwhelming majority at the election.
But by this time he had begun another crusade which already threatened to involve the country in something like revolution. It was not a wild-cat hunt of the sort in which a Bryan or a Henry George would have involved the country for the sake of personal notoriety and the profits of office. It was a sober, steady, earnest fight against that cuttlefish organization of capital which was sucking the life-blood out of the nation; that monster of monopoly which had made American politics a scoff and a byword among the nations of the earth, and American law and justice the names of things that could be bought and sold.
In his nomination address, he had said "I am neither a socialist nor a silver crank. I believe in every man getting and having that which his hands or his brains can win for him. I believe in every man getting just as rich as he can by honest and legitimate methods. I believe in the survival of the fittest, but I want them to be the fittest, and I want the fittest to mean the best, not the worst. I want an open field, and no favour for any one. I want the race to be to the swift, and the battle to the strong; but I also want the race to be run fairly, and the battle to be fought within the four corners of the law. I have as great a horror of mob-rule as I have of purse-rule, and I want to make both of them impossible within the boundaries of what I hope will soon be truly called the United States."
The meeting at which this speech was delivered was signalized by an extraordinary incident which practically assured the election of the Young Tribune. At the end of the speech, his own father mounted the platform and opposed him. It was the first time they had met since the interview in the library.
It was also notable as the first occasion on which a multi-millionaire Trust-king had come out into the open to defend his order and the principle on which it was founded. What prompted him to do it, he himself didn't know. But he did it, and the result of the discussion on the public mind was simply terrific.
"This is my father. I claim a hearing for him!" Raeburn shouted through the storm of hoots and howls that greeted the appearance of the too well-known monopolist, and almost instantly the tempest was stilled. Then the old man stated his case clearly, calmly, and decisively. When he had done, Stanley refused to make any reply whatever, but his chairman got up and read out a statement showing with pitiless accuracy the sources of his colossal fortune, and ended by saying, without any attempt at oratorical flourish
"This is the fortune that Mr. Raeburn's son and heir had in the hollow of his hand. The amount of it proves better than any words could do how sincerely he hated the methods by which it has been accumulated, and why he left his father's home to become, for all he knew then, an outcast and a beggar."
When the tempest of applause which followed had died away, Stanley Raeburn senior went up to his son and held out his hand, and said
"You may be a dreamer or a fool, or both, but now I see that you are trying to ruin me as well as yourself. I've got to admit that you're an honest man. Let the battle be to the strong, then! Those are the lines I have fought on all my life. Euin me if you like, and if you can. On the day that you're President of the United States, I'll forgive you. Will you shake on that, Stanley?"
"I will," he said, springing to his feet and taking his father's hand. "I'm not going to ruin you, dad. I'm only going to try and get you to make money that will be cleaner, even if you don't have quite so much of it than what you have now."
Then they shook hands.
After this, the election was a foregone conclusion. The Young Tribune was, in fact, the only man possible. The Democratic and Eepublican candidates dropped out of the hopeless contest when Tammany and kindred institutions had bribed themselves almost into bankruptcy. The Silverite and Populist candidates shouted themselves speechless and disappeared after them, leaving as the Young Tribune's only opponent the nominee of the Irish-American party, and as he, appropriately enough, was an ex-convict and dynamitard who had been all too leniently released from Her Majesty's prison at Portland, he didn't matter very much.
As every one expected, the day of Stanley Raeburn's inauguration as President of the United States was the beginning of troubles for the dollar- despots of America. Within the next few weeks, senator after senator and member after member of the House of Representatives was impeached on the ground of bribery and corruption, and either unseated or forced to resign; and then gradually, and for the first time since the Civil War, politics in America became possible for respectable people. Men who a year before would have considered a nomination as an affront to their personal honour came forward and were elected to the vacancies thus created in the midst of a popular quiet and decorum which boded very ill for the old order of things.
The first act of the Raeburn Administration was the enactment of a new and far more stringent Anti-Trust Law, and this was immediately enforced with such ruthless and undiscriminating severity that the Trust-kings speedily found themselves confronted by a choice between fair trading and open markets and outlawry seasoned with confiscation.
The President's own father was, of course, among them, but he stuck to his bargain like a man, and the result of an interview on the night after the election was that Miss Lucy Carlyle was easily persuaded to make such change in her name and estate as enabled her to take her place as mistress of the White House.
Most of the other millionaires, however, arrogant in their conviction that the dollar was still almighty, if you only had enough of it, determined not to yield their more than royal supremacy without a struggle, even if in that struggle they had to strike at the very foundations of the state itself.
A committee was formed, which was in reality a Trust Defence League, with uncounted millions of capital behind it, and a campaign of wholesale bribery and secret violence was immediately inaugurated. "No instrument was too vile for use, and it was not very long before all the worst elements of the population became aware that good times for the tramp and the criminal, the loafer and the enemy of society, were at hand.
The Irish scented revolution and a return to the old system of corruption on which they had fattened. The foreign socialists and anarchists saw a breakdown of the social machine and plunder of some sort.
In short, all that was bad, idle, and greedy, all the human refuse that was to be had for the buying, was at the disposal of the Trust League. And what the League paid for, it had.
Five attempts on the President's life were made in three months, with the result that he had his left arm broken and his scalp ploughed up with revolver bullets. Small armies of lowdown Irish, discharged policemen, tramps, and other mean products collected in different parts of the country. Anarchism suddenly became rampant in the cities, and the enemies of all society rejoiced to see the forces of the law and order confronted by those of capital, and told each other, when the row was over, there might be something left for them.
It was a serious situation, but President Raeburn was more than equal to it. He said, in his next message to Congress:
"You see, and the American people will now see, the true nature of those who would have goaded this country into war with the world. They never were its friends. Now they are its declared enemies, and I shall consider it my duty as Chief Magistrate of the State to employ against them the same force as they would have used in their futile and dishonourable struggle against a world in arms."
To this, America said, in so many words
"Go ahead!"
And the President went ahead, with the result that something very like civil war followed. There were riots which differed very little from pitched battles; there were dynamite outrages which did more damage than bombardments of the Spanish forts by the American fleet; and in out-of-the-way districts there were murders and burnings and plunderings of which no foreign invading force could have been guilty without bringing the penalties of international law and the execration of civilized mankind down upon it.
The long-smouldering hate between black and white, too, burst into a flame of active frenzy which burnt like a very torch of destruction. In short, the long-expected social war had broken out, and the issue at stake was the choice between cosmos and chaos.
V. SINCLAIR'S IDEA
The revolt, as might have been expected, centred in and round Chicago, and there the queerly allied forces of capitalism, anarchism, socialism, and all sorts of economic nihilism and good-for-nothingism gradually concentrated as the social war went on. Chicago had had an anarchist governor before, and now she had one again. He was a naturalized German named Saltzmann, who had been a captain in the Kaiser's army, and had got himself cashiered for dishonourable conduct. It was he who had finally and formally raised the standard of revolt, and transformed a series of riots and outrages into definite and deliberate civil war. In Chicago itself there had been wholesale murders and "executions" of such loyal citizens of the state as had not been able to escape. But vengeance for these and the other crimes of the revolt came very speedily. The armies of the Republic closed round the city on its landward side, and steamers armed with machine and quick-firing guns played havoc along the Lake Front, and prevented all escape by water. There was a week of bombardment and butchery, of desperate sallies and fierce and bloody repulses. Then, an hour before the bugles were to have sounded for the general assault, the white flag went up, and the remnant of the rebels surrendered at discretion. This one blow crushed the rebellion as the President had intended that it should; and as soon as it was over, he lost no time in setting the Bepublic's house in order. Such of the rebels against whom definite charges of murder, arson, or treasonable conspiracy could be brought home, were either hung or shot, ex-Governor Saltzmann himself having the honour of a special gibbet planted on the roof of the tallest building in Chicago. Those of the Trust-kings whose complicity with the revolt was proved either by the confession of their tools and dupes, or by other sufficient evidence, were sentenced to confiscation of all their American property, and perpetual banishment from American soil. The rest were told that they were at liberty to go on ith their money-making, and to pile up as many millions as they pleased, as long as they kept within the four corners of the present law.
So far so good, but now a very curious situation developed itself, and the Government found that it was confronted by a problem which was unique in the history of national jurisprudence.
During the progress of the revolt from isolated riots to civil war, the country had gradually been cleared by the regular forces, the loyal police, and the vigilance societies, and so the surviving off-scourings of American society had gradually concentrated in Chicago. The consequence was, that when the city surrendered, the Government found itself with several thousand hard and hopeless cases left on its hands. The country, in short, had been purged of its human waste-products, and here was the result of the general sweeping-up. Then the question arose: What was to be done with them?
A couple of hundred years ago, or even less, this question would have been answered by general hangings, shootings, and drownings, but nowadays, whatever expediency might say to the contrary, this was impossible. Wholesale banishment, too, was equally not to be thought of, for not even England, that common dumping-ground of international refuse, could be expected to admit such dangerous rubbish as this. To allow it to scatter through the country again would have been as great a crime as the emptying of a tube of cultivated yellow fever or cholera bacilli into a city reservoir would have been, and as for locking them up, there weren't anything like prisons enough in the States to hold them as well as the normal criminal population. Besides, such a mixture could only have led to another revolt, this time on the part of the regular or professional criminals who had so long had the right to consider themselves the spoiled darlings of Uncle Sam.
Altogether it was a problem well calculated to tax the ingenuity of the most capable of legislatures, and the Government was getting sorely puzzled over it, when one night Sinclair, who was now Secretary for Foreign Affairs, called at the White House and found the President discussing the situation with his father, who had loyally and philosophically accepted the new order of things, and was now busily engaged amending his commercial ways on a bare pittance of a couple of million dollars or so.
The rest his son had ruthlessly confiscated to the purposes of the state as having been illegally acquired even under the old Trust Law. Sinclair had come on some business connected with his own office, but this was soon disposed of; and when he had finished it, he lit a fresh cigar, and said
"Look here, Mr. President, and you too, Mr. Raeburn, I've been thinking over this surplus wastrel business, and I've worked out a scheme that I'd like your opinion on."
"If it is anything like practicable, Sinclair, I shall be only too delighted to hear it, and I don't see how you could have thought out anything that wasn't workable," said the President. "I can assure you it is troubling me more than the whole revolt did."
"In fact, my son seems to think that people who can't make money at all are almost as great a curse to the country as people who make too much," said Raeburn senior, with a dry sort of smile.
"And a trifle worse, perhaps," said Sinclair, "though some people have an idea that those who make too much were in a sort of way responsible for the existence of those who make too little," he continued. "The question is, we've got an army of twenty or thirty thousand of the worst and most useless men and women in this or perhaps any other country on our hands. What are we going to do with them? We can't kill them. We can't banish them. We can't lock them up, and you might as well think of boiling a nigger white as think of reforming them. Well, as far as I can see, there is only one other thing to do. We've got Indian reservations. Why shouldn't we have a Hard Case reservation?"
"By the good Lord, Sinclair, I believe you've hit it. A reservation, and keep them in it! The very thing. Why on earth did none of us think of that before ?"
"That's always what genius gets when it makes the egg stand up!" laughed Sinclair. "But, anyhow, there's the idea, and I think it'll work. You know, for instance, that we have scores of deserted boom- cities lying useless around the country. A good many of them only want a bit of fixing up to make them quite fit for habitation too good, in fact, for a rabble like this.
"Well, now, suppose the Government picks out the likeliest looking of these, and turns its prisoners of war loose in them. Let them shift for themselves, subject to certain regulations. Let them get what living they can out of the soil, and see if Nature and her hunger-whip can't make them work. Of course we can't let them starve, so for the first year we'd have to find them in rations and stock the land. Once there, let them stop there. Build a cordon of forts round them if necessary, and let it be understood that the penalty of escape is sudden death. Then leave them to themselves, and let's see what happens."
"Of course you're not forgetting, Mr. Sinclair," said Raeburn senior, after a little silence, "that there are several ex- millionaires among them, and therefore they would very soon have everything that was worth having; and, well, wouldn't that be perpetuating the evils of the old order under Government sanction?"
"If you mean that for a general piece of satire, dad," said the President, gently, "I think I should be justified in saying that that would only be poetic justice. The idea of a millionaire with no money cornering grain, and meat, and greenstuff, and dry goods in a community like that, and dying of anxiety before some one knocked his brains out to burst the corner up would be distinctly picturesque. But anyhow, Sinclair, that is a real good idea of yours. In fact, it's the only good one on the subject. We'll go into it fully to-morrow, and see what can be done."
The result of the deliberations which followed this conversation was the adoption of Sinclair's idea practically in its entirety. A very conveniently situated boom-city was found in Arizona in a fairly good state of repair, and possessing the advantage of standing in the midst of a fairly fertile region, some twelve miles by ten, almost completely surrounded by barren hills and desert country.
It had been called Halleyville after one Halley, an enterprising speculator who had bought the land for a few dollars an acre, and managed to produce apparently conclusive evidence that the hills were full of minerals, mostly gold. The rush and the boom had been excellently engineered, and so Halleyville was a well-built and quite considerable city, which simply needed a few repairs and a new coat of paint to make it look most respectable.
It was, of course, inevitable that the putting of such a population into a place with such a name should instantly inspire the American humorists with the idea of contracting the name to the shorter and more appropriate form by which the American City of the Plain very shortly became known to the world; and it must be admitted that its new inhabitants were not long in justifying the abbreviation.
Never, perhaps, in the history of the world had so many elements of evil been brought together in one spot. There was not a human being in the place who was not a criminal of some sort, actual or potential, and within their own little territory they were left free to do as they pleased, it being seen that mutual extermination was neither a remote nor an undesirable eventuality.
But they were permitted to have no communication whatever with the outside world, save such as was necessary for the delivery of the monthly dole of Government stores. Within the first week or so after the final location took place, some two hundred were shot in attempting to get back to that society which had cast them off for ever; but as the weeks went by, the attempts and the shootings grew fewer and fewer, till at length they stopped altogether. Forts had been planted at every available outlet, patrols and bloodhounds guarded both hill and desert, and at length Hellville became convinced that the Government was implacable, and so it turned its attention inward and began to prey upon itself.
VI
From the practical and strictly economic point of view, Hellville was a distinct and striking success. Thanks to the wise, if hard, provision of absolute seclusion, there was only one channel through which news of its internal doings could reach the outside world, and this was, of course, the depot through which the provisions, seeds, and agricultural implements provided by the Government were distributed among the inhabitants.
The officials charged with this duty made reports to the criminal department, and although it was intended that these should be kept strictly secret, the American reporter, as usual, proved himself too much for the authorities, and gradually the papers began to publish dark and gruesome stories of what was going on within the borders of the American Gomorrah. It is quite possible that these were exaggerated, or, at any rate, embroidered by the luxuriant fancy of their writers; but, still, they were strictly in accordance with the logical possibilities of the unique situation, and so the world accepted them, not without some reason, as being generally true.
According to them, there was no known form of human wickedness that the inhabitants of Hellville did not revel in, and it was further suggested that they had invented several new ones to keep themselves from stagnating.
There had at first been an attempt to set up a sort of elected government, which was to call itself, after its French revolutionary model, the Committee of Public Safety. The election took the shape of a massacre; but, still, a few who, in the outside world, had been Trust-kings and electioneering bosses, had managed to get elected somehow, and had passed certain enactments for the regulation of the city.
But the moment any attempt was made to put these enactments into force, the executive was promptly clubbed to death, and the members of the committee were burnt out of their houses. This experiment clearly proved that anarchy pure and simple was the only social or anti-social system possible in such a community.
And so anarchy it was anarchy, social, moral, and physical, and the stench of its iniquities rose up to heaven, foul as the smoke of the burnt- offerings of Moloch.
Hellville was, in short, working out its own destiny consistently and with perfectly logical precision. By the time it had been in existence a twelvemonth, its original population had decreased by more than half, and the remainder consisted only of the strongest, the vilest, and the most cunning. The temperance societies had succeeded in getting alcohol absolutely prohibited to them in the vain hope that this would give a chance of reformation. Instead of this, their wickedness had become of a cold-blooded, deliberate, calculating sort, a hundred-fold more hideous than the crimes of excess and intoxication.
They did no work, and lived entirely on the Government rations. Every man and woman loathed and suspected every other, going in constant fear for life and limb. There were no children now, for they, being the weakest and the simplest, had been the first to disappear. And this perhaps, all things considered, was just as well.
Every stealable article of property had been stolen and restolen so many times that there was now practically nothing but common property. There were no pleasures save the indescribable, and the principal pastimes were the torture of those who had made too many enemies, faction fights, and the burning of people out of their houses when they were asleep. When this was done, the spectators were accustomed to make a ring round the burning building, and derive intense amusement from the fights with the flames.
Naturally, under such circumstances, the fame of Hellville spread far and wide over the earth, and from north, south, east, and west, tourists began to flock towards it, so that from the nearest permissible spots they could look upon it through telescopes set up in favourable situations, the owners of which made very considerable revenues, running as high, in the cases of the more powerful instruments, as five dollars for as many minutes' enjoyment of the spectacle.
This, of course, was only to be expected. In one sense, Hellville was distinctly the most interesting spot on earth the one place where human wickedness could be as wicked as it liked, and where human depravity could be as depraved as it liked, on the sole condition that it kept to itself, and hurt no one but itself.
Another somewhat curious and unexpected outcome of the situation was, by the way, a very considerable decrease in outside crime, for the unspeakable horrors of Hellville had struck such universal terror into the hearts of the criminal classes that the mere threat of banishment to it proved a greater deterrent than the severest sentence under the ordinary law.
One man who had committed a peculiarly atrocious murder was given his choice between Hellville and electrocution. He tried Hellville for a month. Then he came to the depot and begged on his knees to be taken away and killed, as he put it, in a decent, civilized sort of way.
Now, if the President and his executive had been allowed to have their own way, the probability is that some day the report would have come that the last two inhabitants of Hellville had either killed each other outright, or wounded each other to death; or when it would have been possible to hang the last inhabitant for the murder of the last but one. They had fully made up their minds, now they had got the essence of the cancerous virus of crime concentrated in one place, that they would keep it there, so that it should prey solely upon itself, and not, as heretofore, strike its roots into the breast of Society, and poison the whole body-corporate of the state.
Who in his senses would think of letting several thousand of physical lepers loose when they had once been isolated in one spot? Surely, would it not then be as great an act of criminal folly to do the same with such social lepers as these?
But, sound and all as were the theories of the President and the Executive from the practical point of view, there was a good deal to be said against them from the moral standpoint, and on this the churches and philan thropic societies preached and lectured until they succeeded, rightly or wrongly, in rousing the American Conscience to revolt against the American Executive.
However debased and vile the remaining inhabitants of Hellville of whom there were now about ten thousand left still, they were human beings, and they had immortal souls to lose or save. What right had the Government to arrogate to itself the prerogatives of Eternal Justice and doom these wretches, not only to a fate of unutterable horror upon earth, but to everlasting perdition hereafter? What would the verdict of Eternal Justice itself be upon a nation which had inaugurated such an impious experiment and carried it through with such pitiless severity? Did the President wish to make himself as God that he should do this thing?
So thundered the pulpits and so stormed the platforms on the one side. On the other was the cold, dry logic of facts. Society had the right to protect itself at all hazards against the moral contagion of crime. Why should not crime feed upon itself and so poison itself?
Never had American society been so pure, so honest, and so free from crime of all sorts as it was now. True, there was that one plague-spot, but it was fast decreasing, and no infection from it was possible. Curiously enough, too, this view was supported by certain religious sects of the grimmer sort, who turned up their Old Testaments and drew lurid morals from the story of the Cities of the Plain.
But in the end the churches and the platforms gained the victory, and that for the very simple and sufficient reason that they succeeded in winning over the most powerful ally that they could have, and this ally was the American Woman. There were women still in Hellville, and the churches called upon the American Woman to rescue them. It was no use publishing incontrovertible proofs that these women of Hellville were the vilest where all was vile. The American Woman's own pure soul was aflame, and she said that they should be rescued, and that she herself would do it. And that was enough. The reaction had come, and, whatever the result, it would have to take its course.
Then one morning, about fifteen months after the beginning of the experiment, President Raeburn received a blow which, for the first time, shook him in the course which until now he had pursued so inflexibly; and, for the first time since he had left his father's house on that memorable morning, he had cause to regret he had ever devoted himself to the salvation of his country. Without any previous warning or private intimation of her intentions, his wife came to the White House, at the head of a deputation of the most influential women in Washington, to make a formal request for the necessary powers to organize a Woman's Mission to Hellville, and calmly announced her own intention of devoting her life to the work, and leading the first body of missionaries into the modern Gomorrah.
VII. SACRIFICE
"But surely, dear, in the name of everything that's I won't say sensible, but possible, you can't mean what you say. You and other women, at any rate nearly as good as you, are to go in all your white purity and innocence into that inferno of all conceivable crime and wickedness, a place that has only too fearfully earned the name that it is known by all over the world! No, no, Lucy; you've allowed yourself to be carried away by pulpit eloquence and your own good heart and merciful soul, but for all that it's impossible. I can't believe it, and I wouldn't if I could. Come now, little woman, tell me that all this isn't true, or at any rate tell me that you've thought better of it. Do, dear, unless you want me to believe that the dream of my whole life is going to be turned into a nightmare just when I am going to realize the highest of my ideals/'
It was the evening of the day of the deputation, and the President was at length alone with his wife. This was the end of an appeal that he had made to her infinitely more eloquent in its purely natural force and the intensity of its genuine emotion than any he had ever made to the thousands whom he had held hanging breathless on the spell of his eloquence an appeal so earnest that, if he had been pleading for his own life yes, or even for hers, it could not have been more impassioned.
She had listened to it sitting in a deep armchair by the fire, with her chin resting on her hand, while he had been striding about the room, and every now and then stopping in front of her, as it were, to emphasize one of his arguments. For all the sign that she had given of understanding him, or of interest in what he was saying, she might have been asleep.
The truth was, as Raeburn had yet to learn, one cannot violently disturb any existing order of things, whether good or bad, without producing very unexpected developments, and of these his wife's sudden and apparently inexplicable resolve was one. No one has yet been able to account, either upon the grounds of philosophy or upon those of common sense, for the spirit which, in the later centuries of the Age of Faith, made a gentle, loving mother capable of taking her children by the hand and leading them quietly to the stake at which all were to be burnt alive together; and the present state of Lucy Raeburn's mind was quite as incomprehensible and yet as indubitable a fact as this.
She seemed, in spirit, to have travelled back to the days when physical martyrdom was considered the crown of spiritual sacrifice. She must have known that there was hardly a chance in a thousand of her or any of her devoted companions coming back alive out of Hellville. The first essential of their mission was that they should go unprotected. She knew she had but to ask, and ten thousand armed men would have gone each one with his life in his hand, if necessary, to protect her. But this would have been the mission of force, not of mercy and love. What would be the use of seeking to bring sinners back into the way of righteousness surrounded by loaded rifles and naked sabres?
Her husband had offered this protection nay, he had implored her to take it, if really in the end she went on this mad mission. But she had refused, knowing, as she well did, that her only strength must be her weakness, and her only protection her utter helplessness. It was, in short, an enthusiasm, a fanaticism that had suddenly taken hold of her. The same spirit which nearly two thousand years before had made the noble Roman maiden choose shame and torment in the arena rather than wedded love and the luxury of a patrician home at the price of sprinkling a few grains of incense on the altar of Diana, had somehow come to possess her, a daughter of America, at the end of the nineteenth century.
To her husband it was an agonized awakening to the possibility nay, almost to the realization, of an issue which he could never have thought even conceivable. With the purest and most honest intentions, and, as he considered, in the best interests to the state to whose service he had devoted his life, he, like a nineteenth-century Frankenstein, had created a monster to which all that was best and dearest to him in the world was to be sacrificed, and willingly sacrificed, too. That was the peculiar horror of it. All that he had hoped for of real happiness in life had been bound up with, and contained in, this one and only love of his. And now, just in the very first flush of that love's fruition, he was to lose it. In other words, he was doomed to stand by and see the one woman who in all the world was the woman for him deliberately walk over the brink of a Tophet-pit of utter and hopeless vileness and corruption, and vanish into it without one chance in a thousand of ever emerging from it again.
These were the thoughts which formed the rack on which his very soul was being torn asunder, and it was this that he had been trying to tell her in words which seemed to him, in comparison with his desperate longing to turn her from her fatal purpose, as idle and meaningless as a wind blowing wreaths and wisps of sand about over a desert.
"I'm afraid it's no use, dear," she replied, looking up at him half wearily. "My mind is made up or rather, perhaps, I ought to say that I am firmly convinced that this is a mission that has been laid upon me by Heaven itself. If not, why should such a purpose ever have come to me? Why should every woman worth the name in America have suddenly felt the thrill of revolt so irresistibly against this purpose of yours; and since they have felt it, is not my own feeling a token of what is, perhaps, a Divine appointment to lead them?"
"But don't you think no, surely you must have thought of all that you leave behind you of the vows that you took with me at the altar, of the long life of real honour and usefulness that may lie before us, of the children that may be born to us, and of all that their lives may contain in the future! Would not this be a nearer and dearer duty than this incomprehensible martyrdom of yours? for, as I believe there's a God above us, I believe that it will be this and nothing less for you and for me too!"
If anything could have shaken her resolve, it would have been these last four words, spoken as they were; but she had already passed the confines of human reason and emotion into that strange exaltation which for the ordained martyr takes the place of both. She rose quickly from her seat and came and put her two hands on his shoulders and looked him straight in the eyes. As he returned her glance, he saw, to his despair, that hers were shining with a light that he had never seen in them before. If she had been any one else, he would have called it the light of madness.
"Those are sacred duties, Stanley, I think," she said in a voice whose utter calmness shocked him more than the wildest outburst of passion could have done. "They are sacred, and they are holy, and they are full of glorious promise here on earth; but that is no reason why there should not be others higher and holier and more sacred. Do you not remember that story of the Huguenot woman who, rather than recant, left her home to go to the stake, although she knew that her Catholic husband and her children would be forced to witness her torture and death?"
"Yes, yes," he said; "but that was a matter of religion. That was different; and, besides, I'm not asking you to recant anything. I am only asking you to give up a project which every one who knows anything of the circumstances has declared to be utter madness, and to stop here at home with me and do the work that God has put nearest to your hand."
"Yes, you are!" she said, drawing herself back an inch or so. ldquo;You are asking me to recant a belief, a faith a faith in God's infinite mercy, and the belief that, even through such poor instruments as I am myself and those who are going with me, He will work the salvation of those poor wretches in that hell-on-earth which your heartless, economic science has shown you how to create out yonder in Arizona. No, Stanley dear, I must go; and I will, for I firmly believe that God Himself has called me to do this work. The greater must come before the less, and the higher before the lower; but, never fear, I shall go and do the work, and come back again—"
"No, never!" he said in a voice that was broken by something very like a sob. "Once you go into that hell-on-earth, as you rightly call it, you are lost to me for ever, so far as this world is concerned. No, Lucy, no! By all that I hold holy, you shan't go! No, you shan't, not even if I have to keep you back by force until this madness of yours is over. You shan't! You shan't! I love you too much, and I want you too much, and I'll keep you, however I have to do it!"
Then he crushed her up in his arms and kissed her with a fierceness that seemed to have something more than passion in it. She submitted without resistance or response, and then she drew back and looked at him again, and said, in a cold, impersonal sort of tone
"You can keep me, if you like, Stanley, because you have strength and the law on your side, but you'll keep me as a slave, not as a wife; as a woman who remains with you because she is chained to you, not because she loves you; for, if you did that, I could never think of you as anything else but my master; not as my husband."
"Then I suppose you must go," he said with a harsh, almost savage ring in his voice, "and God forgive you and help me when you have gone! I suppose there is nothing more to say after that?"
"No, nothing!" she said, still in the same quiet, trance-like voice. ldquo;At least nothing now, I think."
He let her go and walked towards the door without another word. Halfway he stopped and looked back at her still standing there, white and beautiful and impassive. He took a half-stride back towards her, then stopped and turned again. She never seemed to see him leave the room, but as she heard the door close she raised her hands to her temples, looked once round the room, and found it empty, and then, where she had stood, she sank in a white, motionless heap on the floor.
VIII. VENGEANCE
So far from being turned from her purpose, the days as they passed only strengthened Lucy Raeburn's resolve to perform what she and her sister- missionaries had thoroughly convinced themselves was a Divine mission. The President had accepted her rejection of his appeal as final; and although he looked upon the day appointed for the setting out of the mission as the day of his wife's death, he nevertheless took every precaution that was possible to strengthen the appallingly slender chance of her returning to the world.
Messages were sent into Hellville telling the inhabitants what was about to happen, and on the day before the appointed one, the President himself went to the dep&t and had an interview with some of the principal citizens, if such a term could be used of a community which had sunk to one common level of vileness and degradation. It was the first glimpse that he had so far had of the result of his own work, and it horrified and appalled him, as he confessed afterwards, beyond his powers of expression.
They had at least been men of a sort when they went in. Now they were rather human incarnations of evil spirits or lost souls that had escaped for awhile from their place of their torment, and been permitted to revisit the world in some semblance of the form they had worn in it. They were neither men nor animals; they were something else, and that something else was indescribable.
To use an Oriental form of speech, Stanley Raeburn's heart turned to water within him when he saw them and thought of what was going to happen the next day. Still, he nerved himself sufficiently to conquer for the time being both his horror and his agony, and told them, in a few quiet, well-chosen words, what the women of America had undertaken to do through the agency of his own wife and her sister- missioners. Then he caught himself, by a force of habit, appealing to them as men to respect the splendid courage and devotion which had led them to undertake such a noble task. At the word "men," a ghastly laugh went round, and one of them said
"There are no men in Hellville now, President. Do we look like men? There are no women, either; only just a lot of males and females animals, I suppose, some would call us; but if you turned a menagerie loose in this place, I guess the animals would scoot the first show they got to save their morals getting corrupted. Oh, it's a sweet-scented place, I can tell you! Perhaps you'd like to come along with your good lady and spend a week amongst us."
Even the voice was hardly human. It sounded more like that of a beast endowed with the faculty of speech, and the President and all his escort started at the sound of it.
"If I had my way," he replied, "I would come and bring ten thousand men with me to see that you behave yourselves; but if you have any manhood left in you, you will remember that these noble women have refused the protection of even a single armed man, and you will respect them. But, mind," he went on in a sterner tone, "if you don't, if any harm befalls them, and if every one of them doesn't return unscathed ten days from now, the next day you shall find a ring of cannon round these hills, and twenty-four hours after that there will be no Hellville. I shall hold the life of every man and woman in the place in pledge for their safety. Forget this, and God forgive you, for America won't!"
"You needn't threaten, President," said the man who had spoken before. "We can guess pretty well what you'd do; and if we meant mischief, we shouldn't much mind that. We don't take much stock of life in Hellville just now, but you needn't be afraid. There may be some good left in some of us, and the ladies are welcome to come and find it if they can. There'll be no harm done to them."
So the day came, and the devoted little band led by Lucy Raeburn passed through the dep6t from the outer world into Hellville. There is no need to describe here the scenes which attended their going, even if that were possible, and so it is better to leave them to be mentally pictured by those who are able to understand the true meaning of a situation that was absolutely unique in the history of the world. Suffice it to say that they went the incarnation of all that was pure and beautiful and devoted in American womanhood out of world which was the darker for their going into a Gehenna of infamy which might, perhaps, be made brighter and better for their coming.
The week passed, as it had been expected to do, without word or sign from those who had thus vanished out of the light into the darkness. The whole western world, and a great part of the eastern, meanwhile wrote and talked and thought of little else than this marvellous return of the genius of the nineteenth century to the ways and the faiths of the fourteenth. Those who were connected by the ties of love and kinship or affection and friendship with the. Sisters now most justly called of Mercy waited, some in an agony of regret and apprehension, and some in a perfect calm of faith, undisturbed by a single flutter of fear, until the eighth day had passed.
The ninth came, and still no news; and then President Raeburn, on his own initiative, gave orders for ten thousand troops to be under arms and entrained that night, and for twelve batteries of field artillery of six guns, each supplemented by fifty Maxim and Maxim-Nordenfeldt machine-guns, to concentrate with all possible despatch on Hellville. The order was obeyed with an alacrity that was quickened by enthusiastic delight. The whole nation was by this time feeling like one huge spring which for eight days had been held back by an unbreakable cable. This order was the cutting of the cable, and that instant the manhood of America leapt full-armed to its feet, burning with white-hot ardour to save or avenge the fairest flower of its womanhood.
The railways and transport companies made unheard-of efforts to help on the concentration. All day and all night troops marched, batteries rumbled, and trains loaded with living valour and anger thundered over the rails towards the devoted Place of Sin.
The morning of the tenth day dawned, and found the batteries in position, and the troops ready to go in with rifle, revolver, and bayonet to clear Hellville off the face of the earth. As the day wore on, patrols were sent in from the depot, but none came back. Six o'clock, the appointed hour for the return of the martyrs as all now believed them to be came and went, and then President Raeburn, inwardly half mad with the torture of his now realized fears, but outwardly calm with the calmness of despair, issued the order for the troops to stand to their arms and make ready to march in. Then the night came down swift and dark.
What had happened during those ten fateful days, no one knew, and it was destined that no one ever should know. The President had pledged his word to his wife that no assault should be made before daybreak on the eleventh day; but as midnight approached, and still no tidings came out of the black gulf, in the midst of which the distant lights of Hellville gleamed and twinkled, he so far yielded to the entreaties of his ministers and the friends of those whose unspeakable fate no one now had any doubts of as to order an advance, with the object of peaceably occupying the city until morning.
But meanwhile, as some said afterwards, Heaven itself had wearied of the ghastly experiment and the awful sacrifice that it had entailed. It was the month of November, and the earth was passing on its annual way through the meteoric swarms. That night, just a little after twelve, the skies of Arizona were literally ablaze with shooting stars. Then, as though with one accord, and deliberately guided by some avenging hand, several of the streams ran together and met on the zenith of Hellville.
The President, standing on the highest of the hills beside one of the most powerful batteries, looked up with white face and straining eyes, and cried, as though in a moment of inspiration
"'Vengeance is Mine, saith the Lord; I will repay.' God's will be done!"
The already moving troops stopped in their tracks as though some mysterious influence had conveyed the President's words to them. For a few moments the midmost heaven was a sea of leaping, darting flames. Then out of this fell patches and splashes and white, tangled streams of fire; and then in an instant all the air for twenty miles around was filled with a hissing, screaming, roaring tumult, through which thundered out the crashes of explosions such as no earthly cannonade had ever rivalled.
Straight down from heaven to earth the blazing, shrieking storm descended, too swift for human eyes to follow. Then, as it came, so it passed, and the rest of the shining visitants sped noiselessly through the upper regions of the atmosphere, and lost themselves in the darkness and silence of outer space.
With the earliest glimmer of dawn, the troops marched in towards what had once been the site of Hellville, but they found no trace either of the city or its inhabitants. They could not even penetrate into the plain on which it had stood, so thickly was it strewn with innumerable meteorites and fragments weighing only a few ounces to great blocks that must have weighed tons, and all these were blue-hot still.
It was manifest that when they had reached the earth, they must have been white-hot, and there were thousands upon thousands of them, from which may, without much difficulty, be deduced the fashion in which the last dwellers in Hellville had passed away from a world which had found that it had no use for them.
Later on, thousands of the meteorites were built up into a vast pyramid, and on the top of this was placed a great cross of plain white stone. It bore no inscription. The dead needed no epitaph, since of the evil who had died there none could say evil enough to do them justice; and of the good who had died with them, no human words could have said good enough; but as long as good and evil remain in the world, the white cross standing on its pyramid built of Heaven's own missiles of vengeance will continue to tell the story of Hellville, and point its fateful moral to all future generations of men.</story>