<story title="Pussyfoot in Mischief" date="1921">
THE meeting between Mr. Cray and Mr. Edward P. Wallin, of Seattle, was a touching and wonderful thing. It took place on the pavement of the Strand, about fifty yards from the entrance to the Milan, the occasion being a gentle stroll on the part of Mr. Cray towards one of the reopened hotels in Northumberland Avenue, which was reputed to possess a wizard in the art of cocktail mixing. They recognized one another about ten yards off, and their greetings were vociferous and idiomatic.
"If it isn't Ed!" Mr. Cray exclaimed, in great excitement. "Welcome to the gay little burg!
"Joe, old sport, if this isn't bully!" was the prompt and hearty response. "Put it there, my son of the Stars and Stripes. Why, I thought you were handing doughnuts to the boys out in Cologne."
"Demobbed two months ago," was the cheerful reply. "I had twelve months of it steady."
"Gee! but you're a wonder! I guess the Milan's the nearest."
Arm-in-arm, the two men swung along the pavement, Mr. Wallin a somewhat smaller and plumper edition of his old friend. Their faces exuded good-humour and goodwill. Both were filled with the joy of meeting a friend and fellow-countryman in a strange city.
"Ed," Mr. Cray observed, "they've hit it up for us on the other side."
"It's a sure Hades!" the other groaned. "You have to have a pain in your stomach and drop in at the drug store to get a drop of rye or Scotch, and even then you feel like hiding behind the show-case. And I tell you, Joe, to see the boys lapping up soft drinks and getting gloomier all the time is just one over the limit. No one's got used to it yet. We go about kinder dazed."
Mr. Cray glanced at his watch as they reached the Milan bar. He led the way to two easy chairs and beckoned to a waiter.
"Two Scotches-and-soda, Tim," he ordered, "and in a quarter of an hour see that Coley hits us up two dry Martinis with some stick in. Afterwards we'll have a bite of luncheon in the Grill Room."
The programme was approved and carried out. About half-way through the meal Mr. Cray asked a momentous question.
"Say, what's brought you over, Ed?"
Mr. Wallin laid down his knife and fork and groaned. His eyes were fixed with an indescribable expression upon the figure of a woman a short distance away.
"That," he replied. "Her!"
Mr. Cray turned in his chair. A smartly-attired young woman, who had paused upon the threshold looking around the room as though in search of someone, was now approaching their table.
"Why, Mr. Wallin," she exclaimed, as she shook hands, "I had no idea that you were staying here!"
"I'm not," he replied, "I'm just having a bite with a friend. I'd like you to know Mr. Joseph P. Cray—Miss Nora Medlicott."
Mr. Cray rose at once to his feet and shook hands with Miss Medlicott. She was very good-looking, her expression was pleasing, and her manner friendly.
"I'm glad to know you, Mr. Cray," she said. "Are you, by any chance, related to Mrs. Georgina Cray, the Vice-President of the Women's Kill-the-Drink League?"
"My wife," Mr. Cray faltered.
Miss Medlicott shook hands with him again.
"I am proud to know you, sir," she declared. "Your wife has done a great work in Oregon."
"Sure!" Mr. Cray murmured, his tone singularly lacking in conviction. "I've been kind of out of things for the last twelve months."
"Mr. Cray has been over in France, doing Y.M.C.A. work," his friend explained.
"Exactly what I should have expected from Mrs. Cray's husband," the young lady declared, approvingly.
"You'll sit down and have some lunch with us, Miss Medlicott?" Mr. Wallin begged.
The young lady appeared to hesitate. She glanced once more around the room.
"I promised to lunch with some of the crowd," she said, "but—"
Her eyes suddenly fell upon the bottle of Scotch whisky which Mr. Wallin had vainly tried to conceal behind a newspaper. Her manner stiffened.
"We'll send this right away," the offender promised, eagerly. "I'm not accustomed to it in the middle of the day, but Mr. Cray here has a touch of rheumatism."
"Touch of what?" Mr. Cray asked, blankly, and received a kick on the shins for his obtuseness.
Miss Medlicott smiled gravely at him.
"You mustn't think I'm over-prejudiced, Mr. Cray," she said, "but I am a great believer in total abstinence. I have many friends, however, who do not share my views, amongst them Mr. Wallin here. I do not, however, sit down at a table, if I can help it, where alcoholic liquors are being consumed."
"We'll soon make that all right if you'll join us,". Mr. Cray promised, pushing the bottle heroically away.
"In any case," Miss Medlicott replied, smiling, "there are my friends. Good-bye, Mr. Cray. You will come and call, won't you, Mr. Wallin?"
"Sure!" that gentleman assented, eagerly. "I'll be round to-morrow afternoon."
The young lady departed. Mr. Cray looked after her regretfully. "Say, that's a pity, Ed!" he said. "A real stunner, if ever I spoke to one, and a bee in her bonnet like that!"
Mr. Wallin groaned.
"And I love her, Joe," he confided. "I've asked her to marry me six times, and I've come over here because I couldn't bear to think of her in London and these foreign places and me back in Seattle. Sometimes I think I'll have to take the pledge."
Mr. Cray coughed. He found advice difficult.
"It's a serious step, Ed. Men at our time of life ought to be careful how we trifle with our constitutions."
Mr. Wallin helped himself to whisky.
"You're right, Joe," he agreed, "but I do sure love that girl."
"How do you stand with her?" his friend inquired.
"All right, I guess, except for this craze of hers," was the doleful reply. "I can't see that it's her fault. Her father and mother are crazy about it. She's been brought up in the atmosphere."
"She seems a nice girl, too," Mr. Cray sighed.
"If she'd only leave off trying to convert me!" Mr. Wallin murmured.
Mr. Cray finished his whisky-and-soda and displayed an interest in the waiter's suggestion as to liqueurs. The matter having been satisfactorily dealt with, he proceeded to the reconsideration of his friend's dilemma.
"Ed," he said, "have you ever tried to convert the young lady?"
"Will you tell me how to start about it?" Mr. Wallin asked, drearily. "The poor girl doesn't know the taste of wine or liquor. Nothing of the sort has ever been allowed in the house since she was born. I'd as soon think of offering her a cocktail as of handing her poisoned chocolates, and I guess she'd feel the same about it."
"What sort of a crowd is she with over here?" Mr. Cray inquired.
"Why, there's her father and mother, a reverend gentleman, two elderly men, and Hiram Croft, the Senator. I guess he's in the same boat that I am."
"A rival, eh?" Mr. Cray observed.
His friend assented dolefully.
"And looks like landing the goods. There they all are, over at the round table."
Mr. Cray studied them thoughtfully.
"Lot of deadheads," he declared. "Why, Miss Medlicott is the only live figure there. She don't belong, Ed."
"It's a cruel hobby, that water-drinking," Mr. Wallin remarked. "Seems to link them together, though."
"You mean to tell me that sandy-haired, melancholy-looking dyspeptic is your rival?" his host went on. "Gee! Ed, you ought to put it over on him!"
"He's the big noise when he's on the platform."
"Sure, but the girl isn't going to live with him on a platform! What are they all doing over here, Ed?"
"Some fool's stunt," Mr. Wallin replied. "They're collecting recipes of temperance drinks. The idea is, when they find one that goes, to form a company to manufacture it. Something that's cool and thirst-quenching in summer, and warm and vitalizing in winter—see the ads. that Hiram Croft is always drawing up."
"A new soft drink, eh?" Mr. Cray said, thoughtfully.
"That's the idea. They're going round the English manufacturers, and if they can't find anything they're going on the Continent."
"A new soft drink, eh?" Mr. Cray repeated. "There's money in that, Ed."
"Sure," Mr. Wallin assented, "or Hiram Croft wouldn't be in it. He's some water-drinker, and he cuts out the hard stuff all right, but his nose follows the dollars all that time. Pa and Ma Medlicott know that, too. My little pile isn't much by the side of his."
"Ed," his friend said, firmly, "if you let a whimple-faced, anaemic-looking weed like that rob you of a fine girl like Miss Medlicott, I've sure done with you."
"Do you think I want him to have her?" Mr. Wallin asked, almost indignantly. "Do you think I've followed her over here for nothing? Say, you always were a slick sort of chap, Joe. Do you think you could help me?"
Mr. Cray stretched a pudgy but muscular hand across the table.
"I do think so and I will, Ed," he declared. "Put it there."
The Hiram Croft-cum-Medlicott party occupied a large round table in a corner of the restaurant. Mr. Wallin and his companion paused before it on their way out.
"I want you all to know my friend, Mr. Joseph P. Cray," the former said, with his hand on Hiram Croft's shoulder. "Mr. Cray has just returned from a year with the Young Men's Christian Association out at the Front."
Mr. Hiram Croft shook hands. The introduction was made general.
"Any relation, may I ask?" Mrs. Medlicott began, adjusting her pince-nez.
"My friend Mr. Cray," Mr. Wallin interrupted, proudly, "is the husband of Mrs. Cray, the Vice-President of the Kill-the-Drink League."
Mr. Hiram Croft shook hands with him again.
"This is a privilege, Mr. Cray," he said.
Everyone seemed pleased and happy. A chair was brought for Mr. Cray, who looked round at the table with its four goblets of iced water with an inward shiver. There was a good deal of general conversation, which Mr. Cray dexterously brought up to a certain point.
"Mr. Croft," he said, "I am one of those men who before the war had been accustomed to use liquor in moderation."
Mr. Cray, in the eyes of everybody, became a very black sheep indeed. Everybody's manner stiffened perceptibly. It was hard to connect an even moderate use of strong drink with the husband of such an inspired dry prophetess as Mrs. Cray.
"When I took up my post for the Y.M.C.A.," Mr. Cray continued, "I cut it right out. During my year in France not a drop of liquor of any sort passed my lips. Being naturally of a somewhat thirsty disposition, I developed a strong interest in temperance drinks."
"Sure!" Mr. Hiram Croft murmured, with returning tolerance.
"The subject of temperance drinks," Mr. Medlicott announced, "is one which is at the present time engaging a large share of our attention."
"So I understood from my friend Mr. Wallin here," Mr. Cray said. "I gathered that you were over here looking out for a thoroughly satisfactory recipe for a non-alcoholic beverage."
"Do you know of one, Mr. Cray?" Miss Medlicott asked, with a smile.
"Madam," the gentleman addressed replied, solemnly, "I do."
"Say, this is very interesting," the Senator remarked. "Can we be introduced to it, sir?"
Mr. Cray drew his chair a little closer up to the table.
"Mrs. Medlicott and gentlemen," he said, "it is, in a sense, a most extraordinary thing that I should have come into touch with you. I claim to have discovered the most wonderful, refreshing, thirst-quenching, and exhilarating beverage the world has ever known. I hold the recipe of it, and I value that recipe at a good many million dollars."
"Large figures," Mr. Croft murmured.
"If the beverage," Mr. Cray proceeded, solemnly, "stood on the market according to my directions and sold at even a moderate profit, its sales throughout the world would be colossal. But," he went on, "all this is talk. I am prepared to prove my words. I ask you, Mrs. Medlicott and gentlemen, have you yet discovered a satisfactory non-alcoholic beverage?"
"We have not," Mrs. Medlicott admitted.
"We were inclined to favour a certain brand of dry ginger ale," Mr. Croft observed, "but we have come to the decision that its after-effects are deleterious."
"A sense of inflation," one of the old gentlemen murmured.
"A tendency towards pains in the lower regions," Mr. Medlicott admitted, frankly.
"In short," Mr. Cray summed up, "you have not yet found what you are looking for. Now, I have brought my recipe back from France, and, although I have not yet sold a single bottle, been near the advertisers, or mentioned it to a soul, I have a plant near London, and I shall be starting out shortly to manufacture on a very small scale. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to dine with me in the restaurant of this hotel at eight o'clock next Wednesday night, when my daughter, Lady Sittingbourne, will be proud to be your hostess. You shall then test my beverage, and if you find it what you are looking for, there shall be no question of dollars between us. I will give you the recipe."
Mr. Hiram Croft shook hands with Mr. Cray for the third time.
"Sir," he said, "if you are not led away by the enthusiasm of the discoverer, you are one of the world's benefactors."
"You have spoken, sir," Mrs. Medlicott declared, "as the husband of Mrs. Cray should speak."
"In short," Mr. Medlicott declared, "we accept your invitation."
Mr. Cray received his guests on the appointed day in the sitting-room of his suite. He presented them to his daughter, and as soon as they were all assembled he stood by his little sideboard and addressed them.
"Mrs. and Miss Medlicott and gentlemen," he said, "I can assure you that I feel it a very great honour to entertain you all tonight, but I do not want you to lose sight for a moment of the fact that in a sense this is an educational, and I trust you will find it a deeply interesting, gathering. I am going to disprove everything that has ever been written about alcohol."
"Hear, hear!" Mr. Hiram Croft murmured.
"Now," Mr. Cray continued, smiling, "you are all doubtless aware of a long-established habit amongst our country people of taking a cocktail before dinner. However one looks upon it, the habit itself is, without doubt, a pernicious one."
"Deplorable!" Mrs. Medlicott murmured.
"Unhygienic," one of the old gentlemen echoed.
Mr. Cray signified his unqualified assent.
"Still," he continued, "one function of this cocktail is on the surface a pleasant one. A little party of friends such as the present one meets, a little tired with the day's toil, shy, perhaps, from an imperfect acquaintance with one another, depressed with business worries, physically, perhaps, and mentally weary. Alcohol, in the shape of a cocktail, has its functions upon such an occasion. We have heard the hearty laugh, we have seen the lightning change, the smile of relief, a spirit, perhaps, of good-fellowship, incited by this evil means. Now, my friends, I propose to show you how something of the same sort can be incited without recourse to this bane of our days, alcohol."
Mr. Cray lifted a napkin from the top of a dozen or so of glasses which stood upon a silver salver upon the sideboard. The glasses were filled with a pale amber liquid, on the top of which was floating a small piece of lemon. Very proudly indeed Mr. Cray handed a glass to each of the little company. They all accepted it with a smile of pleased interest.
"Now this," Mr. Cray announced, "is the subject of my first recipe. It is, I claim, pleasant to the taste, stimulating, refreshing, and entirely harmless. It is quite inexpensive to produce, and if you share my enthusiasm for the beverage of which you will presently partake, the recipe for this slight appetizer shall also be yours. Mrs. Medlicott—Miss Medlicott—gentlemen!"
They all tasted critically, tasted again, and set down their glasses empty. Then they all looked at one another. Mr. Wallin was the only unenthusiastic person.
"I'm afraid I'm all for a dry Martini, Joseph," he admitted, "although I must admit that this is a pleasant little appetizer so far as soft drinks go."
"Your taste, sir," Mr. Hiram Croft said, severely, "is vitiated. The beverage of which we have just partaken, Mr. Cray," he added, looking hard at the sideboard to see if there was any more, "represents, I consider, a remarkable discovery. I find it exceedingly pleasant and, if I may say so, stimulating, without the noxious after-taste of alcohol."
"I think it is perfectly delicious," Miss Medlicott pronounced.
"Most soothing," Mrs. Medlicott agreed.
"Mr. Wallin's criticism," Mr. Medlicott said, regarding him steadily, "only proves how a taste for the really good and pure beverages of life may be destroyed by reckless indulgence in alcohol. I consider this beverage which you have offered us, Mr. Cray, a most marvellous discovery. I offer you my congratulations. I am impatient to become acquainted with your other and main discovery."
"I am most gratified," Mr. Cray declared, beaming. "If you will follow me, then, we will now get along to the restaurant."
The little party made their way along the corridor to the lift and thence to the restaurant. There was not the slightest doubt that the truth of Mr. Cray's contentions was already becoming evident. The two old gentlemen, who brought up the rear arm-in-arm, looked a great deal less like college professors, and surveyed the gay scene in the foyer with critical and appreciative eyes. Mr. Hiram Croft talked the whole of the way. He was even genial to his rival, Mr. Wallin.
"It is my belief, sir," he said, "that your very interesting friend, Mr. Cray, has made a marvellous discovery. I have suffered from dyspepsia all my life. Meals have been a trouble to me instead of a pleasure, I have seldom anticipated the partaking of food except with dread. To-night I have quite a new feeling. I am hungry, I am looking forward to my dinner. If this sensation lasts I shall hail Mr. Cray as one of the benefactors of his generation, and I shall make it my business, too, as a Senator and a man of some note, Mr. Wallin, in our great country, to see that your friend's discovery brings him the fame to which he is entitled."
Mr. Wallin listened with respect to his companion's eulogy. Mrs. Medlicott, who walked at Mr. Cray's right hand, talked to him all the time with marked graciousness. She did not once raise her pince-nez to gaze with disapproval at the somewhat exotic evening dresses of the other guests in the foyer. Her mouth had lost its severe curve, and she, too, seemed full of pleasurable anticipation. Miss Medlicott, who walked on the other side of their host, was inclined to be a little thoughtful. She, too, however, was in the best of spirits, and a little cry of admiration escaped her lips when, escorted by many bowing waiters, they were ushered to a private room opening out of the main restaurant, in the centre of which was a large table beautifully decorated with great clusters of red roses, and with a little American flag rising from a fancy edifice in the middle. There was a general murmur of interest when, as they sat down, gold-foiled bottles, one to every two persons, were discovered around the table.
"So this is the great discovery," Mrs. Medlicott said, smiling. "The bottle presents a most attractive appearance."
"I am glad that it meets with your approval," Mr. Cray replied. "I have instructed the waiter not to open any of it until after the soup, as the contents are slightly aerated."
Mr. Hiram Croft looked a little disappointed. He ate his oysters and swallowed his soup with almost tumultuous eagerness. A little murmur of deep interest escaped from everyone when, with the serving of the fish, a dark-visaged potentate dexterously opened one or two of the bottles and glasses were filled.
"Ladies and gentlemen," Mr. Cray said, "this may be an epoch-making dinner in the history of American temperance. If you approve of this beverage, as I trust you will do, there may soon come a time when it will become a familiar feature upon the sideboard and dinner-table of every self-respecting American citizen. My best wishes to all of you!"
Glasses were clinked all round the table. Mr. Cray drank with Mrs. Medlicott and Miss Medlicott, Mr. Wallin drank with Mr. Medlicott, the two old gentlemen drank with one another, Mr. Hiram Croft drank with everybody. When he set down his glass it was empty. His words reflected the expression of pleasure on everyone's face.
"Mr. Cray," he pronounced, "there can be no manner of doubt about the qualities of this remarkable beverage. I hail you, sir, as one of the greatest discoverers of the age, one of the greatest friends American temperance has ever had."
"Let us drink," Mrs. Medlicott purred, "to Mrs. Cray. What would she not give to be with us to-night!"
"To Mrs. Cray," the senator assented, waving his refilled glass, "Vice-President of the Kill-the-Drink League. Also to her worthy husband, Mr. Joseph P. Cray," he added, bowing to his host.
The toast was duly honoured, and the conversation continued on cheerful and optimistic lines. After his first glass Mr. Cray turned to Mrs. Medlicott.
"Madam," he said, "I trust that it will not offend your susceptibilities in any way if Mr. Wallin and I, who you know are not abstainers, take a glass of champagne?"
Mrs. Medlicott shook her head at him, but her expression, as well as her tone, was kind and genial.
"Why, you must please yourself, Mr. Cray," she replied. "I am thankful to say that I am not a prejudiced woman."
Mr. Cray bowed, and the waiter filled his glass and Mr. Wallin's with champagne of a well-known vintage. Mrs. Medlicott sighed.
"Everyone to his taste," she said, "but it does astonish me, Mr. Cray, that when you have a harmless and non-alcoholic beverage of such marvellous properties as the one which we are now drinking, you should prefer to drink wine and face the after consequences."
"Wine doesn't disagree with me, madam," Mr. Cray declared, mildly.
Mrs. Medlicott squeezed his arm in friendly fashion.
"Joseph Cray," she said, "I take an interest in you because I know your wife."
Mr. Cray sighed.
"I suppose Amelia has to be in it," he murmured.
Mrs. Medlicott shook her head playfully.
"Why, Mr. Cray," she exclaimed, "you are getting me all confused. Now listen to me, there's a dear man. Statistics—"
Mr. Hiram Croft's sonorous utterance suddenly descended upon them like a mill-stream, sweeping away the froth of lighter conversation. One hand fondly embraced the stem of his wineglass, with the other he beat time upon the table.
"Statistics," he interrupted, "have proved to the conviction of every thinking man the evil and the horror of indulgence in alcoholic beverages of any sort. Mr. Joseph P. Cray here has swept away the last excuse of the wine-drinker. He has provided us with a beverage generous in its qualities, exhilarating in its after-effects, delicious to the palate. This beverage," he continued, looking earnestly at the bubbles in his glass, "has none of the thin acidity of most temperance drinks. It has none ofsh—I beg your pardon," he said, holding his hand before his mouth and correcting himself with prenatural gravity. "It has none of the thin limpidity of the aerated waters in ge-general use. If I were to search through my vocabulary for a single adjective, or rather epithet, to apply to this wonderful refreshment, I should call it—inspired."
"Bravo!" exclaimed the two old gentlemen from the other end of the table.
"How eloquent you are, Mr. Croft!" Miss Medlicott murmured.
Mr. Croft dived for her hand under the table, and very nearly lost his balance. The young lady drew a little farther away.
"What I should like to know," Mr. Medlicott demanded, "is what can alcohol give us that we do not find in this simple beverage?
"What indeed?" Mr. Cray murmured, under his breath.
The Senator straightened his tie, which he was surprised to find had gone round to the back of his neck.
"Mr. Cray," he declared, "is the world's greatest benefactor. He has dug a grave for alcohol, he has signed the doom of hard drinks. You agree with me, gentlemen?" he asked, leaning over and addressing the two gentlemen with strained politeness.
"Sure!" they exclaimed, with one breath.
"I am glad to hear that," Mr. Croft said, severely. "For a moment I fancied that you were not in sympathy with our enthusiasm."
"That's where you were dead wrong, then, Croft," one of them replied.
Mr. Croft looked round the table.
"If anyone has anything to say against this beverage—" he continued, with the air of one spoiling for a fight.
"I thought it a little insipid," Mr. Wallin commented. "I was glad to get a glass of champagne afterwards."
"Inshipid?" Mr. Croft repeated, severely. "Mr. Wallin, you surprise me."
"Not nearly so much as you're surprising me," that gentleman replied. "I haven't seen you look so well or talk so well for ages."
Mr. Croft smiled. He looked steadily at Miss Medlicott's hand, as though meditating another dive. She promptly withdrew it and moved her chair a little nearer to Mr. Wallin's.
"It was a pleasing custom in my younger days," Mr. Croft said presently, as the wonderful repast drew to a finish, "to—er—shing shongs—I beg your pardon—to sing songs at the conclusion of a feast of this description—college songs generally. Can anyone oblige?"
Everyone seemed willing to oblige at once. Mr. Cray struck the table with his fist, however, and demanded silence for Mrs. Medlicott, and Mrs. Medlicott, interrupted with little bursts of laughter which necessitated her stopping sometimes to wipe the tears from her eyes, warbled a strange ditty in which the moonlight, a coloured gentleman of amorous propensities, and a chicken seemed inextricably mixed. Mr. Cray roared a buccaneering ditty, and Mr. Croft, in a reedy falsetto, essayed a well-known darky melody. Presently Mrs. and Miss Medlicott retired into the little withdrawing-room opening out from the suite, Mr. Croft, supporting himself by the back of the chair, throwing amorous kisses at the latter's retreating figure. His eyes returned to the sideboard, and rested there with marked satisfaction.
"Two more bottles," he declared. "We'll give thish beverage a thorough tesht, Mr. Cray."
Mr. Cray signed to the waiter. Then he rose to his feet. Miss Medlicott was standing on the threshold of the withdrawing-room, beckoning imperatively to him.
"If you will excuse me for one moment, gentlemen," he begged.
"For one moment, but never a life-time," warbled Mr. Croft. "Come back shoon, old dear."
Mr. Cray approached Miss Medlicott with some apprehension. She drew him inside the little room. Mrs. Medlicott was lying on the couch with her eyes closed, and snoring melodiously.
"Dear host—" Miss Medlicott began.
Mr. Cray saw that the young lady's eyes were dancing with humour, and he felt relieved.
"Will you give me the recipe of your temperance beverage, please?" she said.
"I will if you promise to marry Mr. Wallin," he replied.
She laughed softly.
"He hasn't asked me lately," she said.
"If he asks you to-night?" Mr. Cray persisted.
She looked back into the room. The two old gentlemen were sitting arm-in-arm, telling one another stories. Mr. Medlicott, with a cigar in the corner of his mouth and a beatific expression upon his face, was leaning forward in his chair, listening to Mr. Hiram Croft telling a story in a confidential and suggestive undertone. Mr. Wallin, pink and white and wholesome, was looking a little bored.
"I agree," she whispered.
Mr. Cray drew a paper from his pocket.
"You take four bottles of old champagne, one pint of brandy—" he began.
"No more," she interrupted. "Take my advice and tear it up. Fetch Mr. Wallin."
"Ed," Mr. Cray called out softly, "will you step this way?"</story>