<story title=" A NEW DEPARTURE" date="1912">
PRYDE holed out his last putt from the edge of the green, commiserated with his defeated opponent in the tactful fashion of a practised golfer, and led the way to the smoking-room of the golf club. He was feeling, even for him, in particularly cheerful spirits. He had met a very agreeable new acquaintance, and played excellent golf. Over a whisky and soda he broached the question of a return match.
“Can you take me on again soon?” he asked. “I was a bit above my form this afternoon, as you’ll probably find out.”
His opponent made a little grimace. He was a tall, middle-aged man, with shrewd, pleasant face and humorous eyes. His name was Hutchinson, and his occupation that of a merchant. Pryde had been introduced to him only that morning by the secretary of the club.
“I am afraid, from the look of things at present,” Mr. Hutchinson remarked, “I am going to have plenty of spare time for a good many weeks to come. Any day that suits you—Wednesday, if you like.”
“Wednesday is one of my regular days,” Pryde announced, entering the appointment in his diary. “I’m afraid I’m rather an idler nowadays—too much time on my hands. You might let me know your address, though. I always like to know where to send word to, in case of accidents.”
Mr. Hutchinson handed him a card.
“17 Basinghall Street,” he said.
Pryde returned the civility.
“32A Colmayne Court, just off Bloomsbury Street,” he pointed out. “I’ve no telephone, I am sorry to say.”
“No chance of my wanting to put you off, I’m afraid.” Mr. Hutchinson sighed ruefully. “I’m in the unfortunate position of having concentrated nearly all my business upon one country, where things aren’t quite at their best just now. Try one of these cigarettes,” he added, handing over his case. “I brought them home from Constantinople last month.”
Pryde accepted one and recognised its quality.
“One of the few European cities I’ve never visited,” he remarked.
“One of the few I’ve visited too often,” Mr. Hutchinson replied, with a sigh. “I have always had a great idea of the future of Turkey, and since the revolution I’ve concentrated my business there. We were doing fairly well, too, until this wretched war came.”
Pryde nodded sympathetically.
“I had an idea,” he observed, “that it wasn’t making so much difference so far as Turkey itself was concerned.”
“In a sense that is true,” Mr. Hutchinson admitted. “Unfortunately, however, there is the future. Turkey will have to pay for the good offices of someone. She can only pay with trade, and I’m afraid we are not the people who will be paid. . . . By the by, how long has your handicap been at four? I suppose you realise that you were round in eighty or eighty-one at the outside this afternoon?”
Pryde smiled at the compliment, and recognised the desire to change the conversation. They talked golf casually for another quarter of an hour. Then, just as they were preparing to depart, a servant brought a telegram to Mr. Hutchinson, which the latter opened at once with nervous haste. Pryde slipped away while he read it, and made his farewells. Mr. Hutchinson was sitting with the telegram crumpled up in his hand, a black frown on his forehead, staring out of the window at nothing. Pryde walked quietly away and left him there.
They met again, however, in the train on their way up to London. Mr. Hutchinson purposely selected the carriage in which Pryde was travelling, and alluded casually to the telegram which he had received.
“I’m afraid I’m in rather a nervous state just now,” he explained apologetically. “You see, all my interests are concentrated in Turkey. I’ve been foolish enough, in a sense, to put all my eggs in one basket. I have studied the tariffs very carefully, and though it’s slow work, there’s a great business to be built up in Turkey itself and Asia Minor. I export boots and hosiery chiefly, and any number of smaller articles, and I buy back produce of every description. If Turkey is left alone, the future of my business is a certainty. On the other hand, if she is driven to make peace and to pay for it in the obvious manner, I shall be ruined. . . . There, that’s enough of my affairs. Tell me, do you follow any occupation at all?”
“Not at present, I am sorry to say,” Pryde replied. “I was in the diplomatic service once for a year or two, but I had rather bad luck, and I was obliged to give that up. I never took to anything else wholeheartedly.”
Mr. Hutchinson nodded.
“I wonder,” he remarked, “did you ever meet or hear of a man named Feldemay?”
The cigarette slipped from between Pryde’s fingers. He was staring at his companion in genuine amazement.
“Why, what on earth made you ask that question?” he exclaimed.
Mr. Hutchinson’s surprise at the effect of his question was obviously sincere.
“I really don’t know why I asked you,” he replied, drawing the crumpled-up telegram from his waistcoat pocket, “except that the fellow’s name is mentioned here. I know years ago he was concerned in some sort of shabby deal for a certain European country. Then he turned up as leader of the revolutionaries in Portugal. Lately, I believe, they kicked him out. Now he is mentioned in this telegram I have just had—the same fellow, I suppose.”
Pryde read the dispatch which his companion had smoothed out upon his knee:
“Senn reaches London to-night. Will stay Milan. Prepared make certain proposals inimical our interests. Feldemay in Vienna; joins him end of week.”
“It was through Feldemay,” Pryde said slowly, “that I had to leave the diplomatic service. I’ve met him once since, and thank goodness I got a little of my own back!”
“You know more about him than I do, evidently,” Mr. Hutchinson remarked. “Till Wednesday, then. I get out here.”
He alighted unexpectedly at Clapham Junction, and Pryde completed his journey and made his way back to his rooms. As he entered the door of the building he nearly ran into Mr. Simmons. He noted with displeasure that the inspector was carrying a large bunch of violets.
“Do you happen to know whether Miss Burton is in?” Simmons asked as they climbed the stairs together.
“She generally is at this time,” Pryde replied, staring hard at the violets.
“There is a little matter,” Mr. Simmons continued, “which I wish to speak to her about. Perhaps it would be as well, if you could spare a moment, for you to come in too.”
The inspector’s last suggestion had been accompanied with a somewhat contemptuous glance at the golf clubs which Pryde was carrying.
“I have nothing in the world to do,” Pryde assured him airily. “I will come in with pleasure.”
Grace was seated at her typewriter, and welcomed them both with equable civility. She accepted the violets, which Simmons somewhat clumsily offered to her, without enthusiasm or any particular show of gratitude. She had discouraged Pryde so often in making these little offerings that he was almost inclined to resent the fact of her accepting them at all.
“Saw them as I came along, Miss Burton,” Simmons said, “and I couldn’t help thinking how nice they’d look in your room.”
“Thank you very much,” Grace replied. “I do not, as a rule, care for flowers about me. For once, however,” she added, with a slight emphasis on the second word, “I will change my habits.”
She put them in water and glanced at the clock.
“If you would like some tea—” she suggested.
“Nothing in the world I should like so much,” Mr. Simmons interrupted.
“Nothing so good after a hard day’s work on the golf links,” Pryde echoed, with a glance at Simmons.
The inspector stroked his moustache.
“Takes a lot out of you, that game, I should think,” he remarked.
“It is rather a strain on the nerves,” Pryde confessed.
Mr. Simmons coughed. He was still trying to think of a suitable rejoinder when Grace intervened.
“The tea is quite ready, if you will sit down,” she said. “I am very pleased to see you both, but I am rather busy. You perhaps had some business to discuss, Mr. Simmons?”
Mr. Simmons stirred his tea.
“Business,” he admitted, “of a most delicate and important character.”
Grace was occupied in pushing back a little wisp of fair hair which insisted upon breaking into a curl. As she pushed it back, she caught Pryde’s eyes fixed upon her. The hair was undoubtedly pretty, and the fingers were very soft and shapely. The realisation of these facts was written in Pryde’s admiring gaze. Grace frowned slightly and turned to Mr. Simmons.
“It sounds very interesting,” she murmured. “Please go on.”
“If I were speaking,” the inspector began, “to anyone else in the world, I should lay the greatest possible stress upon the absolute necessity for secrecy in what I am going to say.”
“So far as Mr. Pryde and myself are concerned,” Grace assured him, “you can take that for granted.”
“This morning,” Mr. Simmons continued, “the chief had a visit from a member of the Government. They met to discuss a certain matter unofficially. The matter is this. There arrives to-day in London a messenger from the Turkish Government, who has powers to treat on behalf of his country for peace. His visit to London is believed to be a bluff. The English Government is, some people think, almost too anxious to proclaim the impossibility of any intervention. It is believed that this emissary from Turkey is here to treat with representatives of a foreign Power. For certain reasons it would have been indiscreet for him to have visited the capital of that country. London is a safe meeting-place. London, therefore, has been chosen. The English Government is very much interested in these suggested negotiations. The emissary from Turkey will probably be accompanied by a man who is an old hand at the game. Every one of the men or women employed at different times by the Government in Secret Service work is known to him. Therefore this visit to my chief. It was suggested that some person might be found, not being an official, who might ascertain the nature of the negotiations proposed by this emissary from Constantinople.”
Grace nodded approvingly.
“I have seldom heard a case put more clearly, Mr. Simmons,” she declared.
Mr. Simmons was obviously pleased.
“We have extraordinarily little information to give you,” he proceeded. “I do not believe that the person who visited us this morning even knows what country it is with whom this emissary is prepared to deal. I cannot tell you the name of the emissary; I do not know for certain when he arrives or where he is going to stay. All that I can tell you is the name of the man who has him in charge—the go-between. His name is Feldemay.”
This time Pryde remained absolutely unmoved. Grace, who had glanced towards him at the sound of the name, smiled her approbation.
“Do you mean to say,” she asked, “that this is absolutely the only information you are able to give us?”
“Every shred,” the inspector declared. “Furthermore, if you get into any trouble we cannot lift our little finger to help you. You will have to undertake this as a private affair altogether. You have no principals to look to, nor any direct hope of reward. All the same, I think that success would mean a good deal to you.”
“I am afraid it’s rather out of my way,” Grace said thoughtfully. “I shall have to rely upon Mr. Pryde altogether.”
The inspector said nothing, but he appeared to regard the fact as unfortunate.
“The information which would be most appreciated,” he remarked, “is this. First of all, whom will this person approach? Secondly, what terms will be offered? Thirdly, is any agreement likely or possible? I am afraid you will find it rather a forlorn hope, any way, but Miss Burton has always been so anxious to be interested in something of the sort.”
“I adore diplomacy,” Grace murmured.
Mr. Simmons smiled and took his leave with a gallant bow. Pryde, after the door had been closed, went over to the violets and sniffed them disparagingly.
“I am not altogether sure,” he said, “that I like that young man.”
“You have such peculiar tastes,” Grace observed.
“I have no doubt,” Pryde continued, “that in his profession he finds such qualities useful. At the same time, I should be inclined to call him a little pushing.”
Grace untied the violets and calmly began to fasten some in the bosom of her gown. Pryde turned towards the door.
“I see you are busy. I’ll come in and chat over this little affair some other time.”
Grace’s fingers paused in their task.
“Have you anything to say about it?”
“A good deal,” Pryde answered. “I object to any man—”
“I mean with reference to that little affair of business,” Grace interrupted severely.
Pryde came slowly back again.
“Nothing much,” he said, “except that that young man seems to have rather a poor opinion of our abilities.”
Grace looked at him with a faint smile.
“The affair, then, seems to you to be easy?”
“The commencement of it, at any rate,” Pryde replied. “The emissary’s name is Senn. He arrives in London at seven o’clock to-night, and he will stay at the Milan Hotel.”
“Amazing person!” Grace murmured. “How did you discover all this?”
Pryde shrugged his shoulders.
“I had a Scotch nurse,” he answered. “She always declared that I had second sight. I am going to dine in the grill-room of the Milan. If it were not that I am beginning to learn the fate of such invitations—”
“I shall be ready in an hour,” Grace declared.
GRACE scrutinised the prices on the menu severely.
“On the whole,” she decided, laying the card down, “I think we shall find diplomacy expensive.”
“A little outlay,” Pryde answered, as he gave the order for asparagus, “is often returned a hundredfold.”
“You are treating me rather like a child,” Grace reminded him. “I haven’t the least idea what we are doing here.”
“Within an hour,” Pryde told her, “I shall obtain an introduction to this emissary. If it were not for your unfortunate susceptibility, I might also be able to include you. I understand that Monsieur Senn has French manners.”
“Rather fancying yourself to-night, aren’t you?” Grace remarked, helping herself to hors d’œuvre. “I suppose the arrival of this mysterious person was in all the papers?”
Pryde smiled but made no rejoinder. His eyes were fixed upon Mr. Hutchinson, who had just entered the room, and was advancing slowly down the restaurant. He was met by a maître d’hôtel, with whom he talked for a few moments, obviously ordering dinner. He was on the point of turning away when Pryde rose from his seat and touched him on the shoulder.
“Mr. Hutchinson,” he said, “can I have just a word with you?”
Mr. Hutchinson turned round quickly. At first he seemed scarcely to recognise Pryde. Then he smiled.
“Why, my golfing friend, of course,” he declared. “Is this one of your haunts?”
“Not as a rule,” Pryde answered. “I came here to-night for a special purpose. Part of that purpose was to see you.”
Mr. Hutchinson frowned.
“Why, I hadn’t told a soul that I was coming here!”
“No; but you knew that Monsieur Senn was arriving at seven,” Pryde replied. “Don’t think I am mad or impertinent, Mr. Hutchinson. Will you listen to me for a moment?”
“With pleasure,” Mr. Hutchinson assented, still completely mystified.
Pryde drew him a little on one side.
“Look here,” he said, “Monsieur Senn arrives at this hotel to-night upon a mission the nature of which is known to both of us. If either of us could discover the exact means by which he proposes to obtain his end, we should be in a position to frustrate it. You represent English trade, and for the moment I represent English politics. We neither of us want Senn to make a bargain over here inimical to our interests.”
“Who the dickens are you?” Mr. Hutchinson asked.
“Never mind,” Pryde went on. “I just want you to understand that we are on the same side. Have you seen Senn?”
Mr. Hutchinson nodded a little gloomily.
“I met him at the station,” he replied. “We were once great friends, but he would have avoided me if he could. I drove here with him, though, and he is going to dine with me in a few minutes. He has already as good as told me, however, that he is not prepared to discuss politics.”
“Quite so,” Pryde remarked. “That just confirms my own ideas. Now listen. Will you order your dinner to be served at the next table to mine, in the corner there? Towards the end of dinner you can find an opportunity for introducing us. That is all I ask of you. My only object is to discover from Senn exactly what you want to discover. If either of us succeeds, I think that we can frustrate his mission. I have been an irregular correspondent of one of the London weeklies. I should like to be introduced as a newspaper man.”
“And the young lady?”
“The young lady is my companion for the evening,” Pryde explained. “She is, by profession, a typist.”
Mr. Hutchinson hesitated for a moment. He looked from Grace to Pryde and he smiled.
“Well,” he said, “I feel I can trust you, and in any case I haven’t much to lose by doing so. It shall be as you suggest.”
Pryde returned to his place, and Mr. Hutchinson left the restaurant. A few minutes later he re-entered, followed by his guest. Pryde held out his hand as they passed the table, and greeted him with the air of an old acquaintance. Mr. Hutchinson paused and was introduced to Miss Burton. The two men then took their places at the adjoining table. Monsieur Senn was a man apparently of about thirty-five years of age, slim, sallow, and with large dark eyes and black hair. He had the air of a Frenchman, and he was dressed with extreme care. His nails were wonderfully manicured, his linen irreproachable, his jewellery tasteful but unusual. He had the air of being a little bored with his companion, and more than once he glanced towards Grace.
The service of dinner proceeded, and Pryde became conscious of a change in his companion, very subtle and very gradual, which filled him alternately with admiration and irritation. To begin with, she was wearing clothes of a much more fashionable cut than any he had ever seen her in. She seemed to be altering her deportment to fit them. The coldness and reserve with which she had always kept Pryde at such a distance had departed. Her mouth was softer, her eyes were full and bright. She was no longer severe, almost Quakerish, in her demeanour and tone. She moved about continually, sometimes leaning across the table to laugh up into his face; sometimes sitting back in her chair as though momentarily bored, and glancing around the room for distraction. At such times she nearly always met the direct gaze of the young man at the next table. Once Pryde could have sworn that there was the very faintest smile upon her lips as she looked away from him.
“This is all very well,” he said softly, “but where is it going to end? I don’t want to have to break that fellow’s head before I’ve discovered his secrets.”
She laughed gaily.
“After all, my very superior friend,” she replied, “I think that it will be my affair. We shall see.”
Towards the end of dinner Mr. Hutchinson leaned across and addressed them. It was quite obvious that his companion had been making inquiries as to Grace’s identity. Pryde turned his chair a little as they chatted about golf.
“Won’t you come and have your coffee with us,” he suggested, “and bring your friend—if you will?”
The young man rose promptly to his feet, even before his host could glance towards him. The chairs were moved and introductions effected. Monsieur Senn sat next to Grace.
“You, too,” he asked her, “play this wonderful game of which they talk all the time—this golf?”
She shook her head and made a little grimace.
“I am not so fortunate as Mr. Pryde,” she said. “I am a typist, and I have to work most of the day.”
“Typist?” he repeated. “Do you mean that, mademoiselle?”
“Indeed I do,” she answered. “I work sometimes eight hours a day. Fortunately, I know French, so I get quite a good deal of work. To-night is a holiday for me.”
He spoke at once in French.
“But it is delightful, this!” he exclaimed. “I express myself always so badly in English.”
“There are so many ways of expression,” she laughed, looking up at him.
“There is the universal language,” he murmured, “of which mademoiselle, I fear, knows everything that is to be known.”
“On the contrary,” she replied, “I am, alas! English. It is only in France that one learns those arts.”
Pryde, who was beginning to talk nonsense, could bear it no longer, and abandoned his conversation with Mr. Hutchinson. Grace, however, was rising to her feet.
“I am going to take Monsieur Senn into the foyer,” she said. “We want to listen to the music. You can come there when you have paid the bill.”
Monsieur Senn rose with alacrity, and they passed out together. Mr. Hutchinson and Pryde both watched them.
“A very entertaining young lady,” Mr. Hutchinson remarked, just a little dryly.
“When she chooses,” Pryde assented, with a slight frown. “Tell me, how have you got on with your guest?”
“Not at all,” Mr. Hutchinson replied. “I can see quite clearly all the time that he is ill at ease with me. I haven’t the slightest doubt that, whatever his mission over here may be, it is going to be disastrous for us. He would not even talk of the war, and did you see how eager he was to break up our tête-â-tête? Shall we go down and find them?”
“We will give them a few minutes longer, I think,” Pryde suggested.
Mr. Hutchinson glanced at him curiously.
“The young lady—” he began.
“Oh, the young lady is in it, too,” Pryde assured him.
Mr. Hutchinson suddenly sat down in his chair and laughed.
“We will have another liqueur!” he exclaimed. “We will drink to our success! Would anyone believe that such interesting episodes were to be met with in our dull, commercial city? I drink to the good health of Miss Grace Burton, and may she twist our friend around her little finger! . . .”
Grace certainly seemed to be succeeding fairly well. She was sitting in a corner with Monsieur Senn, and the music did not appear to be claiming their undivided attention. She looked up a little demurely as they approached. There was a twinkle in her eyes which Pryde, at least, appreciated.
“Monsieur Senn insists upon taking us to a music-hall,” she announced.
“It will be a treat for me,” Monsieur Senn declared. “Except for Mr. Hutchinson, I have no friends in England. My agent, whom I expected to meet, will not be here for two days.”
No one made any objections. They spent the remainder of the evening at one of the Leicester Square music-halls, and Monsieur Senn took unusual pains to monopolise Grace as far as possible. When they parted, he talked to her for a few moments in an undertone. He was obviously anxious to see her home, but Pryde had already ordered a taxicab, and stood waiting with the door open.
“It will be au revoir only,” he insisted, as they separated. “Till to-morrow, then, mademoiselle.”
“Until to-morrow,” she echoed, as she took her place in the cab.
They drove for a short distance in silence.
“I congratulate you,” Pryde said at last, “on the possession of gifts which you seem to have been able to keep pretty well to yourself.”
“My dear Mr. Pryde,” she retorted, “you do not half know me yet.”
“I find it easy to believe you,” he assented. “If, however,” he went on, “I could myself be treated to a few of those delightful glances, if I might even be allowed to whisper in your ear—”
“There is not the slightest necessity for anything of the sort,” she interrupted, drawing a little away. “My attitude towards Monsieur Senn was dictated entirely by policy.”
“Can’t you imagine,” he begged, “that I, too, have a secret? I have, really, if you’d only let me tell it you.”
Grace laughed at him mockingly.
“I want you to remember the terms of our partnership,” she said.
“When are you going to see the fellow again, anyhow?” he asked.
“He is going to bring me some typing at eleven o’clock to-morrow morning,” she replied.
“I am afraid you are right,” he confessed. “I am afraid this is going to be your affair.”</story>