<story title="THE UNPUBLISHED TRAGEDY OF MRS. DELAMOIR" date="1914">
STEPHEN PRYDE was conscious of a variety of most disquieting sensations. In the first place he had completely lost his appetite. Furthermore, he was furiously and unreasonably angry. Charles hung around him continually, aware that all was not well with his favourite client, sympathetic but helpless.
“It is not one of monsieur’s regular days for luncheon here,” he ventured.
Pryde was scowling across the room toward the small table against the wall at which Grace and a companion were seated.
“It isn’t,” he admitted. “That accounts for it.”
“Accounts for it, monsieur? But for what?”
Charles glanced wonderingly across the room and understood. The perplexity upon his face disappeared.
“Monsieur perceives that the young lady in whom he was interested has found a companion,” he remarked confidentially. “They sit together to-day for the third time. On Tuesday evening he dined with mademoiselle.”
“The devil he did!” Pryde muttered.
“One notices these things,” the waiter continued, glancing around to be sure that his services were not required elsewhere. “For so many months the young lady has been so retired, so lonely. It was monsieur who first spoke of her. Always she sits alone; she is reserved; she avoids notice. It is not until one looks carefully that one realizes that mademoiselle has an appearance. The gentleman who is with her now,” Charles went on, leaning a little closer towards Pryde and dropping his voice, “he asked about her one day last week, very much as monsieur did.”
Pryde muttered something between his teeth and poured himself a glass of wine. The affair grew worse!
“The young lady would probably object to our discussing her,” he remarked grimly. “You can fetch me my coffee. And this afternoon I will take a liqueur—the old brandy.”
“Monsieur shall be served,” Charles murmured, and hastened away. It was not until he had served the coffee and generously filled the liqueur glass above the line with the deep-brown brandy that he spoke again. He leaned forward confidentially.
“It is for monsieur’s private ear, this,” he whispered. “We do not, as a rule, speak of such things. The gentleman who is with her now, he wrote a little note to mademoiselle, here in the restaurant at luncheon one day. Mademoiselle replied, and he took his coffee at her table.”
Pryde waved the man away impatiently.
“That will do, Charles,” he said. “There is probably some explanation. It certainly is not our business.”
Pryde lit his cigarette, and while he smoked he looked across the room. The man was apparently a little less than middle-aged, dark, with small black moustache, well groomed, well dressed. He would, without doubt, rank as good-looking. His manner indicated an interest in his companion, which, to some extent at any rate, she seemed inclined to return. Grace was certainly more animated than usual. The pallor of her cheeks was undisturbed, but her eyes were exceptionally bright, and she was listening with obvious interest to all that her companion had to say. Beyond the faint uplifting of her eyebrows and the grave nod with which she had acknowledged his greeting upon his entrance, she had taken no further notice of Pryde, nor had she even once glanced in his direction. That no familiar intercourse should take place between them in public was a condition to which she still rigidly adhered. Pryde hated it and obeyed. To-day he was more than ever a rebel.
Presently he paid his bill and went. Grace, although without doubt she saw his preparations for his departure, took not the slightest notice of him. She was talking all the time, and her manner, for her, toward this new acquaintance was positively friendly. Pryde jammed his hat upon his head and walked round to the club.
“Bridge!” he muttered to himself. “A debauch at bridge, and the Lord help my partner!”
The morning had been hopelessly wet, which was the reason Pryde was not playing golf. There was plenty of bridge, there were also billiards and other sane amusements to be found at the club. Pryde passed the time away as well as he could, but he found it a task of some difficulty. His usual cheerfulness seemed to have deserted him. He revoked at bridge, lost two games of billiards, and contradicted a member of the committee; altogether a disastrous afternoon.
About five o’clock, just after he had sent his tea away for the second time, a boy from the hall below came in search of him.
“Wanted on the telephone, sir,” he announced.
Pryde rose promptly.
“Any name?” he asked.
“There was no name, sir,” the boy replied. “The gentleman is waiting on the line now.”
Pryde hurried downstairs, passed into the telephone box, and took up the receiver.
“This is Pryde,” he said. “Who are you?”
“I am Inspector Simmons,” the voice answered, “I am speaking from Miss Burton’s rooms.”
“Is Miss Burton there?” Pryde asked.
“She is not here at present,” the man replied. “I rang up to ask whether it would be quite convenient for you to step round here.”
“Of course I will,” Pryde assented. “There’s nothing wrong, is there?”
The voice hesitated for a moment.
“Not that I know of. Perhaps it would be as well if you came round.”
Pryde rang off, put on his hat and coat, caught a taxicab, and in a few minutes’ time presented himself in Grace’s rooms. To his surprise the inspector, who admitted him, was still alone there.
“Where is Miss Burton?” Pryde demanded.
“That’s exactly what I’m not sure about,” the inspector explained. “I had an appointment with her here this afternoon at three o’clock. I arrived quite punctually, rang the bell, and, as there was no answer, I went away. I came again half an hour ago, and, as there was still no one here, I took the liberty of entering. Miss Burton, as a rule, is very particular about her appointments.”
“She was lunching with a friend to-day,” Pryde remarked gloomily.
“Where? What sort of a friend?” the inspector asked.
Pryde hesitated. The inspector’s tone was eager, almost impatient.
“It was a man whom I think she met at the Café Lugano—just a restaurant acquaintance.”
“Was he dark, with a small black moustache, brown, freckled complexion, well dressed, looked like a military man?” the inspector asked quickly.
“That is an exact description of him,” Pryde admitted. “Who is he? What do you know about him?”
The inspector glanced at the clock.
“What time did you say they were lunching?” he asked.
“Between half-past one and two,” Pryde replied. “I left them there.”
“That confirms my information,” the inspector said, half to himself. “It is now past five o’clock. Please excuse me for a minute.” He went to the telephone and gave a few rapid orders. Then he turned round to Pryde.
“You’ve heard of the Glen Terrace tragedy, Mr. Pryde?” he asked.
“Of course. What about it?”
“The man whom you saw lunching with Miss Burton is the man we are shadowing for it,” the inspector declared. “We can’t arrest him at the moment because there isn’t sufficient evidence. All that we can do is simply to watch and see that he doesn’t get off. I’m as confident that he did it as that I’m standing here at this moment, but if we put our hands on him too quickly and he once gets away he is safe for life. Miss Burton took the matter up entirely on her own responsibility. She had an idea that she could get the evidence we are lacking. I told her it wasn’t a proper case for her to mix herself up in. She only smiled at me. She is a determined young lady, as I dare say you know. Anyway, she has been meeting this man for the last few days, and she told me to be here at three o’clock. She expected, I believe, to have something definite to say. I don’t mind confessing that I’m a little worried about it. It seems—”
“You say your men are shadowing him?” Pryde interrupted quickly. “Can’t we find out exactly where he is?”
“They lost him after leaving the restaurant,” the inspector replied. “It seems he went in by the hotel entrance and must have come out by that of the restaurant. We could have had our hand upon his shoulder at any time during the last three months, and there isn’t the least chance of his being able to escape out of the country. But where he is at this precise moment I must admit that I don’t know.”
“Shall I go to the restaurant,” Pryde asked, “and find out if anyone remembers their leaving?”
“I have gone as far as that myself,” the inspector remarked. “What I was told bears out what you say. Miss Burton and Delamoir left the Café Lugano together in a taxi at five minutes to two.”
Pryde glanced at the clock.
“My God!” he muttered, “that was more than three hours ago.”
THE sun was shining between the showers, and the sky was unexpectedly blue when Grace and the man with whom she had been lunching left the little restaurant in Old Compton Street. They stood for a moment upon the pavement, and Grace, with a farewell nod, prepared to turn away.
“Good morning, Mr. Harold,” she said. “We must have another talk some day about these fancies of yours.”
“Why not this afternoon?” he asked. “Don’t you see how beautiful it is just now? Couldn’t you spare, say, one hour? Do you know what I was going to do? I was going to take a taxicab and drive about alone. Come with me.”
She looked at him thoughtfully for a moment. Her hesitation made him the more insistent.
“Do come,” he begged. “You know how nervous and broken down I am. To have anyone near as calm and self-centred as you are is like a sedative. Please come, just for one hour.”
“I will come,” she agreed.
He called a taxi and handed her in.
“Is there anywhere you wish to go particularly?” he inquired.
She shook her head.
“I have no choice,” she replied; “only we must not be longer than an hour.”
“To Putney,” he told the driver. “I will direct you again.”
He took his place by her side. In this clear sunlight there were things to be noticed about him not easily apparent in the dimmer light of the restaurant. He was dressed in mourning, with a black tie, and a black band around his hat. There were lines upon his face, and a strange restlessness in his deep-set eyes. Every now and then his lips twitched. He looked about him all the time with little abrupt movements of the head.
“If I were you,” Grace suggested, “I should see a doctor. Overwork should never make anyone quite as nervous as you seem to be. It is so easy to cure oneself if one has the will.”
“It is not only overwork,” he muttered. “Let us forget it for a few minutes. How wonderful to be so calm and collected as you are always! Do you never feel emotions, little lady?”
She turned her head and looked at him.
“My name,” she said, “is Miss Burton.”
“Can’t you forget, just for a little time, to be formal?” he begged. “I am so lonely. Just a little sympathy, a very little kindness—”
He took her hand. She drew it quietly but firmly away.
“Mr. Harold,” she said, “if you are expecting that sort of thing from me, please stop the cab and let me get out. I am sorry for you, because you seem to me to be unnecessarily ill, but I have what you would perhaps call peculiar views as to these small intimacies. I do not permit anyone to hold my hand. If you are expecting, because I have promised to drive with you for an hour, that I am to be flirted with, you had better let me go at once.”
“I beg your pardon,” he exclaimed quickly. “It shall be just as you say. I will sit here. You shall talk to me or let me talk. I will not touch your fingers again, I promise. Only, somehow or other, I have been feeling so lonely, and you are such a strange, quiet little person. You have such a gift of making one talk and of listening.”
She smiled.
“If you will keep your part of the bargain,” she promised, “I will stay with you; not unless.”
“I will keep it,” he agreed.
They were passing through St. James’s Park toward Buckingham Palace. Now that they had left the more crowded streets behind he seemed a little more at his ease.
“Let me advise you seriously,” she begged, “to go and see a nerve specialist. There is a man in Harley Street—I could give you his address—to whom ever so many barristers go, and members of Parliament.”
He laughed curiously.
“You think it is overwork only,” he groaned. “I wish—oh, I only wish I dared tell you!”
She looked steadily ahead. There was so little about him that she did not know—one thing only.
“Why don’t you?” she murmured.
“You are so sensible,” he muttered. “You would not go into hysterics.”
“I am certainly not given to that sort of thing,” she assured him.
“You are a woman, too,” he went on; “very different from her, but still a woman. In a way you would understand. Promise not to jump out of the taxicab?”
“I promise you that under no circumstances will I attempt anything of the sort,” she replied.
“My name is not Harold,” he confessed, gripping the strap by his side and shaking as he spoke. “My name is Richard Harold Delamoir—Delamoir, you know!”
She turned her head.
“I seem to have heard the name lately,” she murmured.
“Heard it!” he exclaimed. “Haven’t you heard it at every street corner, seen it on every newspaper placard?”
“Of course,” she assented. “You are the Richard Delamoir whose wife was found poisoned in your house at Putney.”
He looked at her, his lips parted, his eyes blinking rapidly.
“You don’t mind?” he cried. “You are not terrified?”
“Not in the least,” she assured him calmly. “Why should I be?”
He drew a long sigh. Then he leaned back among the cushions.
“If there were only more people like you in the world!” he muttered. “Do you know that it was only a fortnight ago?”
“I read all about it,” she answered.
“You don’t know the worst,” he went on. “The police are watching me all the time. They think I did it. They think I murdered her. Everybody thinks so. The ’bus drivers, the tradespeople, the children in the street—they all stare at me curiously as I go by—the man who poisoned his wife! The women look at me from behind the curtains. The men hurry when they pass. It’s worse than overwork, this, Miss Burton.”
“Yes,” she admitted, “it is worse than overwork.”
“There isn’t a soul,” he continued, “except the doctor, whom I’ve dared to speak with about it. I haven’t been near my club, I’ve had to leave my favourite restaurants alone—that’s why I turned up at the Lugano, where I first met you. I thought the doctor might have talked to me now and then. We used to be quite friendly once. I went to see him the other night—just dropped in to have a pipe, as I used to. He only said a few words, but it was the way he looked at me. I understood. I remembered his evidence at the inquest. Did you read the report of the inquest, Miss Burton?”
“I did,” she assented. “It rather interested me.”
“Ah!” he groaned. “They say that after the doctor’s evidence it was a toss-up whether I was arrested or not! Do you know why I wasn’t? Do you know why I am free now? They are waiting to get a little more evidence. They are afraid they might try me and I might get off, and then they’d find out too late. Evidence! I could give them all the evidence they wanted.”
“Then why don’t you?” she asked.
He laughed harshly.
“Why should I? Is it my business? Let us talk about something else, Miss Burton. I want to get away from it for a little time. You know the worst now. I’ve nothing to hide from you. You know that I am Richard Delamoir.”
She watched him without flinching.
“Is it true,” she asked, “that you have inherited a large sum of money by your wife’s death?”
“Quite true,” he answered; “quite true. Oh, I am rich! I hadn’t much before I married her, but she left me everything. I thought of stealing out of the country, but they are so clever, these detectives. They’d think I was running away. I should feel a hand on my shoulder just as I was getting into the train. Ugh! If only there was someone to go with me! If only I could get away from this infernal solitude!”
He looked at her eagerly. There was very little encouragement in her emotionless face.
“Have you no friends or relatives at all?” she asked.
“No relatives—not one,” he replied. “I was born in Australia. Most of my friends over here were my wife’s friends, and—”
His voice seemed to leave him for a moment. He tried to speak and failed.
“They keep out of my way,” he went on, after a moment’s pause. “I don’t know why. Can you think? They can’t believe—not all of them—Let us talk about something else. Have you ever been a nurse, Miss Burton?”
“Certainly not,” she answered. “Why do you ask that?”
“I don’t know, except that you are so restful and so strong,” he declared. “You make me feel almost like a child. That’s because my nerve is gone, of course. Are you very well off, I wonder?”
“I am not at all well off,” she told him. “I am a typist.”
“If I were to give you a large sum of money,” he went on eagerly, “would you go abroad with me—just as my nurse,” he explained hurriedly, “just to be with me and keep me from being frightened always? You could have plenty of money, beautiful dresses. Dresses would make such a difference to you—dresses and hats. You are queer looking, you know. You look old-fashioned and dowdy, and your face is so still and quiet that one forgets that you have really beautiful eyes. It would change you tremendously to be well dressed.”
Her eyes were half closed with silent laughter. There was something about the laugh a little cruel. It checked his enthusiasm at once.
“You are afraid of me.”
“Who—I?” she asked. “I afraid?”
“I didn’t mean that,” he exclaimed. “I mean that you are afraid I should want to make love to you. Do you know, sometimes I think that I shall never want to make love to another woman.”
“How old are you?” she inquired.
“Thirty-nine,” he replied. “I was twenty-six years old when I married Maggie. She hadn’t her money then. She was just a chorus girl.”
“Is it true that you used always to quarrel?”
“We used to quarrel a good deal,” he admitted. “I am afraid I was a little jealous. Maggie was always having flirtations. She was crazy for admiration.”
Grace sighed as she looked away. After all, there were all the commonplace elements of tragedy here.
“You really wish to talk about something else?” she asked. “Come, I will try. You shall tell me about your life in Australia. I think you said that you were born there?”
“It isn’t any use,” he said. “I want to talk about something else and I can’t. It always comes back.”
“Then, if you won’t talk about anything else,” she said, “tell me what you meant when you said that you could give the police the evidence they needed.”
He shook his head.
“No,” he muttered, “I couldn’t trust anybody with that, not even you!”
She was silent. He sat by her side, and his manner gradually became calmer.
“It is odd,” he went on, half to himself, “how much I have told you, really; you—just a little stranger whom I spoke to in a restaurant. Why did you let me speak to you?”
“You looked lonely,” she answered. “I am never afraid to speak to anyone. I can take care of myself.”
“Yes,” he admitted, “I should say that that was true. You can very well take care of yourself. Would nothing terrify you, Miss Burton? Would nothing shake your nerves?”
She smiled.
“I have no opportunity for judging. My life is a very uneventful one.”
“Try them this afternoon,” he begged eagerly. “You see where we are? We are close to Putney. The third turn to the left, then another turn, and the fourth house is where I live. Not a soul has crossed the threshold since that day. Come in with me. Sit with me for a little time. Perhaps it will help. Perhaps after that I shall not be so terrified. If only I can feel another human being breathing the same air in that sitting-room where we used to be! Will you come?”
She did not hesitate. She had no fear. She felt easily his master.
“If it is any satisfaction to you,” she assented, “I will come.”
His eyes flashed. He gave a direction to the driver, who looked at him curiously. In a few moments they turned off the main street. In less than five minutes the taxicab was pulled up outside one of a little row of villas. As they stepped out, Grace was half conscious of people peering from behind the windows. Some women opposite, who had been pointing out the place to a stranger, stared open-mouthed. Grace followed her companion composedly into the house, the door of which he opened with a latchkey. He closed it behind them.
“Why have you sent away the taxicab?” she asked.
“You won’t hurry?” he pleaded. “Why should I keep it there? People always gather round if they think I am here. They stare so. Come.”
He opened the door of a little drawing-room, a queer apartment, half Oriental, with a tented divan in one corner, and a curious smell of incense. The wallpaper was of bright yellow, and the curtains black. There were withered flowers in the vases and cigarette ash upon the carpet. The atmosphere was almost unbearable.
“Do you mind opening a window?” Grace begged. “I couldn’t possibly sit here like this.”
He nodded and threw up one of the side windows.
“I have only just put my head in here since,” he explained hoarsely. “I couldn’t bear it. This is where we used to sit. Maggie had such queer tastes. I don’t think,” he went on, “that she had a really healthy nature. She liked everything exotic and unnatural. Poor woman! You see the black curtains and the black carpet. She thought they went with the bright yellow walls, and that they helped her complexion. She was older than I am, you know, and she used to fancy sometimes that she was losing her looks. Yes, I can breathe now there is someone in the room with me. Sit just where you are, please, Miss Burton. She used to sit over in that corner, and often she would lie down on the divan there. I couldn’t bear all the stuffy hangings, but she loved them. Now shall we change the—talk about something else?”
She shook her head.
“You know very well, Mr. Delamoir,” she said, “that, however hard you were to try, you couldn’t talk about anything except—”
“Of course you are right,” he interrupted. “It isn’t any use. I can no more talk about anything else than I can think about anything else. If you want to see her picture, there it is on the corner of the mantelpiece. I can’t look, I don’t know why I can’t.”
He had turned his back upon her. Grace moved to the mantelpiece and took up the picture. It gave her, at first, almost a shock. It was the picture of a woman, haggard, painted, with darkened eyebrows, false hair, in a ball dress cut absurdly low, and a satin skirt absurdly tight. She remembered the words Inspector Simmons had used in speaking to her of the case: “A woman any man would be glad to be rid of!”
He drew the curtain a little.
“There are some boys outside!” he exclaimed irritably. “And those women—their eyes seem never off the place. Do you mind the blind being down?”
She shook her head. There was still a long shaft of sunlight piercing the gloom of the room. Presently he came and sat opposite her.
“If there were any way,” he said, “of ending this—”
“What way could there be?” she interrupted. “You must travel soon, and try to forget.”
“Forget!” he repeated. “Would you forget, I wonder? Could you carry about with you the horrible knowledge I have locked in my heart and forget? No one could.”
“Well, then, why not tell the truth?” she asked calmly.
“If only I could!” he moaned. “If only—” He stopped short.
“Stay where you are, Miss Burton,” he implored. “Stay just where you are. Don’t move. I shall be back in a moment.”
He left the room. Grace heard him climb the stairs. She remained where she was, looking about her. It seemed to her that in all the adventures of her life she had never found herself in such an atmosphere. She looked at the picture of the woman, worthy presiding genius of such an apartment. And yet there was something in the eyes—was it terror or despair?—something piteous shining out from the midst of the wreck, just in the same way that, on a table only a few feet away, a little marble statuette of exquisite design struck a strange note in the midst of the flamboyant furniture and vulgar gewgaws which littered the place.
She heard his footsteps descending the stairs. He entered the room. There was a new look in his face, white and strained. He carried in his hand a little volume, bound in violent purple and tied up with ribbon. He held it out to her.
“The evidence,” he muttered, “I spoke of—the evidence! Only a page or two, mind. You can read, then you will understand. You will be the only person in the world, except myself, who understands. Don’t begin at the beginning, that’s all rubbish. Begin there—there!”
His forefinger showed her the place. She began to read. The entries were sprawled all about the book in a loose, untidy handwriting.
“Began to-day worse than ever. I got up at twelve, and passed the looking-glass on my way to the bath. I almost shrieked. I can’t be like it! I had forgotten my hair! I dressed very quickly. Such beautiful things I put on. Then for a long time I could not make up my mind. I put on my lilac dress and my ermine, with a new hat that came last night, and a thick veil. I spent quite an hour with Madame in her parlour. Then I walked slowly away down Bond Street. At first no one looked at me at all. Then a man and a woman passed, and I heard the man laugh! I looked in at a shop window, perhaps my front was a little crooked. I went down to the theatre. I thought to-day, perhaps, there might be a chance. Madame had taken a lot of pains. The stage doorkeeper smiled when he told me that Bunsome was out. Liar! Bunsome came down the passage just a minute later. I told him what I wanted. He looked at me in a queer sort of way. ‘Can’t see whom I’m talking to,’ he muttered. ‘Take off your veil.’ I took it off. Perhaps my fingers trembled, perhaps I took it off clumsily. He turned away. I could have sworn that he was laughing! ‘My good woman,’ he said, ‘we want girls!’ I got out somehow, and crossed the road. I went into a public-house. I had two glasses of port—filthy stuff—but they won’t sell me drugs in quantities big enough. Never mind, when I got home I forgot!”
GRACE looked up. He was still standing looking down at her.
“Go on!” he ordered. “Turn on to the next page. Turn on quickly.”
She obeyed him.
“Last night I cried myself to sleep. It doesn’t matter crying in the night-time. I was in the West End all day, and I wore my new tailor-made gown, the patent shoes with the grey suède tops, and grey stockings. I met Peter face to face. It doesn’t seem long ago since he used to beg me to go out to luncheon with him. He hurried on. I tried to stop him, but he muttered something about an appointment, looked at me as though there was something wrong about my appearance, and kept glancing around nervously as though he was afraid that someone would see us. I went into Madame’s and looked at myself in the glass. Glasses are such liars. I know I don’t look like that. Every woman has to use a little rouge and a little false hair nowadays to keep in the fashion. I hate looking-glasses!
“I lunched at Prince’s; got rid of Dick. No one ever takes notice of a woman if she’s with a man younger than herself. I am going to write the truth. I can’t bear it! I don’t think I will ever lunch there alone again. The men glanced at me as they came in, and then looked away. There wasn’t one who had that expression in his face I used to see always when I lunched alone and men passed. It frightened me. I couldn’t eat anything. I went into the ladies’ room afterwards, and I ventured to look in the glass. It was Madame’s fault. She had put too much rouge on my left cheek. Yes, it must have been Madame’s fault. I shall try again.”
GRACE put the book away from her. Her voice was unsteady.
“I don’t want to read any more,” she said.
“One more page,” he insisted. “One more, please. You are beginning to understand. One human person in this world understands besides myself. I think that I shall go about with a lighter heart.”
She turned over.
“To-day I feel will be different. Laroche has sent me home the most wonderful white velveteen gown. I have rested until twelve o’clock. Now I have just put it on. It fits me divinely. One would say that I had the figure of a girl. It is marvellous. I have put on my big black hat with the feathers, and a thinner veil. Yes, I am going to risk a thinner veil! I shall go to Madame for an hour, and then I will take all my courage in my hands. I will go once more to Prince’s. I know that Stephen will be there. I will stop him as he passes my table, and I will watch him. I shall see. He used to love me in white. Somehow or other, I feel younger to-day. As to being old, it is absurd. I am not old. I have sent Susan for a taxi, and I have made Richard go away for the day. He bothers me so, wanting to go about with me. What admiration can a woman have who has a young husband with her? He doesn’t seem to understand. I don’t know why I feel so excited to-day. I think it is the white velveteen gown. It is a little daring, perhaps, but Stephen loves white. Now I am going. I don’t think, after all, I shall ever need to use that little packet!”
THE writing sprawled down to the end of the page. Grace looked up. Delamoir’s eyes were upon her.
“Turn over,” he ordered.
She obeyed.
“I can scarcely hold my pen. My God! I have seen the truth! It is the end! Madame called in little Emilie to look at me before I left. ‘Madame,’ she declared, ‘is ravissante!’ I paid her and went out. Just as I reached the door I fancied that I heard a laugh. At the time I thought that it must be fancy. Now I am not so sure. I went to Prince’s; I got my table just inside; I waited. Every one who passed seemed to be in such a hurry. Bunsome came in, and Elliman, and Captain Jenks. I thought it was the position of my table, but they none of them appeared to see me. And then Stephen! He saw me and he was alone, but he was going to pass. I held out my hand, and I smiled at him. ‘Stephen,’ I said, ‘won’t you stop and speak to me?’ He seemed quite awkward about it, but he stopped. I looked at the place by my side. ‘Are you alone?’ I asked very softly. He muttered something about having to join a party. I looked at him intently; he used to say that he liked me to look at him like that. ‘Why are you in such a hurry?’ I asked him. ‘Can’t you stay for a little time and talk?’ He shook his head. Then I felt suddenly queer and giddy. Something came into my heart, and I held him when he wanted to get away. I said: ‘Stephen, tell me the truth. Why do you avoid me? Why do those others hurry by? You men used to crowd around me, not so very many years ago. Why is it?’ He hesitated for a moment, then he looked me straight in the face. ‘Since you’ve asked me that question, Maggie,’ he said, ‘I’ll tell you, as much for your husband’s sake as your own. It’s because you are close upon sixty years of age, and you dress up to make yourself look like a girl, and sit about and expect men to behave as though you were still attractive. And you’re not. You’re an old woman, and you know you are. Leave off painting yourself and wearing clothes thirty years too young for you, and we’d all be glad to see you now and then and talk to you. But no man likes to be seen talking to a guy. I don’t mean to be unkind,’ he went on, for I suppose I was looking at him in a queer sort of way. ‘I’ve just told you this from myself and the others for Richard’s sake as well as your own. Now, be a sensible woman and give it up.’ I think that he went away then. I am not quite sure what happened to me. I found myself in a taxi-cab, and here I am—here I am! Fortunately, I didn’t have to buy anything. I’ve had the stuff with me for years. I am leaving this in case there should be any trouble. Whoever reads this, if it shouldn’t be Richard, please tell him there’s a letter for the coroner on the next page. I don’t know what it’s going to be like on my next page, but it won’t be worse than to-day. I’m going to turn over!”
HE took the book from her fingers. Grace suddenly felt cold.
“I loved her,” he muttered hoarsely. “Don’t you understand that I shall have to hang before I can show that book?”
She gave him both her hands.
“Yes,” she said, “I understand.”
GRACE walked into her rooms at a few minutes past six. Pryde and Inspector Simmons were on the point of leaving. She looked at them in some surprise.
“May I ask what you are doing in my apartments?” she inquired.
“You forget that you had an appointment with me here at three o’clock,” Simmons remarked.
“Quite right,” Grace admitted. “I had forgotten it.”
“And as we had information,” Pryde continued, “that at five minutes to two this afternoon you left the Café Lugano with a certain notorious person called Delamoir, you may understand that we were becoming a little uneasy.”
Grace sank into her easy chair.
“Something has happened,” exclaimed Pryde.
Grace drew a little brown paper parcel from her pocket.
“Mr. Simmons,” she said, “I started out this afternoon to try to entrap a man into a confession of his guilt. I have, instead, succeeded in becoming acquainted with his innocence. The proofs are here.”
Simmons moved swiftly forward, but Grace retained possession of the parcel.
“This,” she went on quietly, “is his wife’s diary. It is my belief that Delamoir would have gone to the gallows sooner than have given it up. I have talked to him for some time, and he has let me have it for two hours, on one condition. You are to read it and your chief. Beyond that, no other person. Not a word of it is to be breathed to the Press. Sooner than have had a single line appear in any newspaper, Delamoir would have hanged. There is no doubt,” she continued, “about its being his wife’s diary. You will find inside some of her letters, in her own handwriting, and there is also one addressed to the coroner, which is in itself conclusive. If, however, you have any remaining doubts as to the genuineness of this diary, you have only to go down to the Hilarity Theatre and interview some of the young women who are mentioned in the earlier pages. Remember, however, that I part with the book only on the terms I have mentioned.”
Simmons accepted the parcel.
“Queer,” he remarked. “I know quite a lot of people who never believed in Delamoir’s guilt; who even declared that he had an odd sort of affection for his wife, weird creature though she was.”
Grace’s eyes suddenly shone. For a moment she was beautiful.
“There are many strange ways,” she said, “in which a man may love a woman.”</story>