<story title="THE MYSTERY OF THE CAFÉ SUPRÊME" date="1914">
PRYDE slept well, was called at a reasonable hour in the morning, visited the hairdresser after his breakfast, and at eleven o’clock strolled out to the front and instructed Paul to procure him a taxicab.
“I shall do as you suggested, Paul,” he remarked. “I have paid my bill. After I have finished my business, I shall call at Scotland Yard and inquire about my cousin.”
The man assented gravely.
“I trust, monsieur,” he said, “that you will receive good news. Also that you will like my little restaurant. Bon jour et bon voyage, monsieur!”
Pryde was driven in a taxi to the War Office. Sir James, who happened to be in the building and disengaged, received him at once.
“Any news?” he asked laconically.
“Not yet,” Pryde replied. “So far, it has been an affair of routine. I am supposed to be here to receive a document from you—drawings, and all that sort of thing. Can I have a bundle made up?”
Sir James nodded and gave a few instructions.
“When one comes to think of it,” he said thoughtfully, “it is rather a serious thing that this fellow Dupoy should have disappeared in the heart of London. Where are you going when you leave here?”
“I am going exactly where Dupoy went. I am going to lunch in a little restaurant off Shaftesbury Avenue, strongly recommended to me by a person whom I suspect was interested in Dupoy’s disappearance. I expect there to obtain, at any rate, a hint.”
Sir James nodded in an interested manner.
“You fellows do get some fun out of life,” he remarked, a little enviously. “I should rather like to lunch with you.”
Pryde shook his head.
“I wouldn’t, Sir James,” he advised. “If I am on a clue at all, it is a very thin one, and these sort of people are easily put off. I think I had better go alone.”
“Anyhow,” Sir James suggested, “you’d better let me know the name of the restaurant, in case you do the disappearance trick, or anything of that sort.”
Pryde scribbled it down upon a piece of paper. Then, with a sealed packet in his hand which he had the air of endeavouring to conceal as much as possible, he left the building and re-entered his taxi-cab. He drove first to Scotland Yard, where, for the sake of appearances, he made a few inquiries. At a quarter to one he was set down outside the Café Suprême. He entered the place, and looked around him for a minute. Although it was early, a great many of the tables were occupied, nearly all apparently by foreigners. There was a small orchestra playing from somewhere below, a large desk, at which an elderly woman was busy making out accounts, mirrored walls, muslin curtains not absolutely clean, the usual appurtenances of a restaurant on the borders of Soho. A little dark man came hurrying up towards him, his face wreathed in smiles.
“Jean Marchand?” Pryde asked.
“But certainly, monsieur,” the little man replied. “It is Monsieur Paul who has sent you here?”
“Paul of Delacher’s Hotel,” Pryde admitted.
Jean glanced around the room.
“Up here, monsieur,” he confided, “it is at all times a little noisy—not entirely comme il faut. I recommend to monsieur my favourite table below. This way.”
Pryde followed his guide down the stairs into a large and somewhat empty apartment, in which were set a few tables only. At the bottom of the stairs an orchestra of three musicians was playing. At the farther end of the room was a long table covered with bottles, watched over by a maître d’hôtel. There were only one or two people lunching.
“It is not yet one,” Jean explained. “Between one and half-past this room will be crowded. There are celebrities who come here. I myself will point them out to monsieur. I recommend this table—the one in the corner.”
“But it is already occupied,” Pryde remarked, glancing with a slightly puzzled air at the girl in the corner, who seemed on the point of raising her veil.
“The adjoining table, then, monsieur,” Jean begged. “Monsieur may make himself comfortable. I myself will return to take his order for luncheon.”
Jean retreated with smooth haste. Pryde advanced slowly towards the corner of the room indicated. Then he stopped short. The girl had raised her veil and was staring at him.
“Grace!” he exclaimed.
“You!” she echoed.
Pryde came and took a seat opposite to her.
“What on earth does it mean?” he cried.
She tore open a letter which lay on the table by her side. She glanced through the few lines and passed it across to him.
“A man called upon me this morning,” she explained. “He asked for my aid in a certain private matter. The first step was that I should lunch here at a table which should be pointed out by a maître d’hôtel named Jean Marchand, and that I should open this letter if a neighbour should take the adjoining place. Read.”
Pryde snatched at the half-sheet of notepaper. Across it was written in ink and in a bold, sprawling hand:
“Good fortune and good appetite to Monsieur Dupoy from Paris, and mademoiselle, his charming partner!”
Pryde looked up at Grace and met her eyes steadily fixed upon his.
“This means?” he said slowly.
The wrinkles began to form around her eyes. She laughed quietly. She leaned back in her chair.
“It means that you have run up against someone even cleverer than we are,” she declared.
“A philosophical attitude,” Pryde insisted, “is our best rôle. We came here to lunch—we will lunch.”
Certainly there was nothing to be complained of in the cooking at the Café Suprême. The service was a little slow, and there was a queer sense of emptiness in the room. All the time there was a great tumult of voices and footsteps upstairs, but Jean’s prophecy as to the filling up of this particular room was in no way carried out. As though by mutual consent neither Grace nor Pryde talked of the disappearance of Dupoy. It was only over their coffee during the last few moments, that the subject was mentioned.
“I made a mistake, of course,” Pryde confessed. “It was foolish of me even to show myself at Delacher’s Hotel.”
She nodded. Soon afterwards they rose and, Pryde having paid the bill, they ascended the stairs and walked out into the street, without having seen anything further of Jean Marchand. As they passed along Shaftesbury Avenue, Grace whispered:
“We are being followed. A man who stood on the other side of the street as we came out is following us now.”
“What is he like?” Pryde asked with a sudden hope.
“He looks like a porter of some sort at an hotel or club,” Grace answered. “He has on dark blue trousers, an ordinary coat, and a cap. He is rather florid—”
Pryde gently guided her down a narrow street.
“It is the man I wanted to see,” he declared softly. “Is he still following us?”
She nodded. Almost directly he stepped up.
“You want to speak to me, Fritz?” Pryde inquired.
“Yes, sir,” the man replied, “but not here. If you please!”
He plunged through the door of a public-house. Pryde and Grace, without hesitation, followed him. It was an ordinary little place, half café, half public-house, almost empty. They sat at a small table, and Pryde ordered something to drink. Fritz leaned forward.
“This morning,” he announced, “after you left, I was dismissed. I was turned away. That man Paul, he thinks that all are fools. He thinks that one sees nothing. He is wrong. Monsieur Dupoy, I am here to speak of your cousin.”
“It is good,” Pryde said.
“I am a poor man,” Fritz continued. “I had a good place until one day Paul he took a dislike to me. Now I am dismissed. Places are hard to get. I have a wife and children. I must do the best I can. It is for that reason that I said to myself: ‘Why should I not profit by the things I have observed?’?”
Pryde brought out his pocket-book.
“You are an exceedingly sensible fellow, Fritz,” he declared. “Now tell me what information you have to offer, and we will talk business.”
“Directly,” said Fritz, “but first, monsieur, what were you doing so long in the Café Suprême?”
“I had lunch there,” said Pryde.
The face of Fritz seemed suddenly blanched.
“Monsieur lunched there!” he repeated. “Downstairs?”
“Downstairs,” Pryde admitted.
Fritz took the glass of brandy which was offered, and drank it off.
“You have the good fortune, monsieur,” he muttered. “It was not so with your cousin when he lunched there downstairs.”
“What happened to him?” Pryde asked quickly.
Fritz shook his head.
“There are things,” he declared, “which, if I knew, I would not dare to speak of. Indeed, I do not know. This is my offer to monsieur. For twenty pounds I will take him to his cousin.”
Pryde placed the money without hesitation upon the counter. Fritz put it in his pocket and rose.
“Understand, monsieur,” he said in the doorway, “that when I point to the house where you will find Monsieur Dupoy, I have finished. If you seek for me, it will be useless. I shall be dumb. I know nothing. I keep my bargain when I show you the house which shelters Monsieur Dupoy.”
“It is agreed,” Pryde assured him.
They walked out into the street. Fritz kept about a dozen yards ahead. They crossed Shaftesbury Avenue, traversed another narrow street for a short distance, and then turned abruptly to the right. There was a newsagent’s shop, with a notice in the window: “Rooms to let for single gentlemen.” Fritz pointed to it.
“There, monsieur!”
Almost as he uttered the words he stepped aside to avoid a passing dray. When it had gone, Fritz, too, had disappeared. Pryde and Grace entered the shop. A Frenchwoman was behind the counter, stout, untidy, with black hair all over her face. Pryde took off his hat.
“Have you, madame,” he asked, “a lodger here of the name of Dupoy?”
She stretched out her hands.
“But, monsieur,” she said, “I have a lodger here whom I do not know. His name is as likely to be Dupoy as anything else. Monsieur would like to see him?”
Pryde followed her up the crazy stairs. Grace came behind. They were ushered into a tiny bed-chamber. A man, partly dressed, lay upon a sofa, his head propped up by two or three pillows. He stared at them eagerly as they came in, and his lips moved, but he said nothing. His clothes hung about him shapelessly. He had a beard of a week or so’s growth upon his chin. His head was tied up with a bandage.
“Dupoy?” Pryde exclaimed.
The man stared at him but remained speechless. Madame shook her head.
“He talks only nonsense,” she declared. “All the time he asks who he is. But listen, it is the doctor who comes. You shall speak with him yourself.”
The doctor knocked at the door and entered. He bowed with a little flourish to Grace.
“Ah!” he exclaimed, “it is perhaps the friends of the unfortunate monsieur?”
“Tell me what has happened to him?” Pryde asked.
The Frenchman stretched out his hands.
“Madame can tell you as much as I,” he said. “Last Friday week he tottered into the shop, very much as he is now. Madame fancies that an unseen hand propelled him. That may or may not be so. His pockets were cut open as though he had been searched. She brought him upstairs and sent for me. Since then I have attended him every day. He was suffering from a terrible blow on the head, which has unfortunately produced, as you see, a complete loss of memory.”
“If his head was bound up, he had already been treated for the blow when he came in?” Pryde remarked. “It was not an accident, then, which had happened in the street?”
The doctor shook his head.
“Monsieur,” he said, “almost I felt it my duty to communicate with the police. The wound, when I examined it—it is beginning to heal now—gave me the impression of having been made by a surgeon’s knife. It takes a certain course. Its effect has been this loss of memory and apprehension. The poor fellow knows nothing. The wound is healing, but for the rest who can tell?”
“He had money?” Pryde asked.
The woman’s eyes were suddenly covetous. She exchanged a rapid glance with the doctor, who coughed and looked away.
“He had money,” she admitted slowly. “There is little left now, though. We have taken for his board, and the doctor has taken for his bills. There is little left now.”
Again there was silence. The doctor was affecting to examine his patient. Pryde walked to the window—dusty, and smothered with a filthy muslin blind. He looked across the house-tops for a moment. The instinct of the detective was suddenly crushed by a strong feeling—a passionate sympathy with this poor stricken creature, an angry craving for revenge. The woman had sidled out of the room. Pryde turned back to Grace.
“We have found Dupoy,” he said, “after all; but there are other things to be done.”
WITHIN a week several things happened. Dupoy was formally identified and died without having recovered his memory. The body of Fritz was discovered floating in the Thames. Paul was so much upset by these and other happenings that he was confined to his room for a fortnight with a severe nervous breakdown.</story>