<story title="THE DISAPPEARANCE OF MONSIEUR DUPOY" date="1914">
“WHAT we want,” Pryde declared, from the arm of an easy chair, “is a holiday—a proper summer holiday.”
“What you may want,” Grace asserted with emphasis, “has nothing to do with me. What I want is to finish this typing.”
He glanced at the machine contemptuously.
“I cannot understand,” he exclaimed, “why you go on grinding away at that wretched copying. You get ninepence a thousand words for it. It isn’t in the least worth your while.”
“Perhaps not,” she admitted, “and yet I fancy that I know my own business best. I have explained to you before that it is not the money that it brings me in so much as the fact that it gives me a definite station in life. If any inquiries are made about me, I can easily prove that I am a professional typist, with work coming in all the time. It would be very much better for you if you had some corresponding occupation.”
Pryde evaded the point.
“Will you come out for a drive this afternoon?”
“I will not,” she replied calmly. “You ought to have gone down and played golf. As you did not, I wish you would go round to your club or somewhere. You distract me.”
He shrugged his shoulders and left her. He found Grace sometimes almost unendurable. Her resolution, her indomitable front towards all his attempts to alter in any way their relations, was beginning to tell upon him. But for that little glimpse he had recently had of her more feminine self and tastes, he would have felt inclined to give up the struggle. It was impossible, however, to believe that she was not like other girls. There had even been moments when he had fancied that she had looked at him more kindly, moments when he had certainly permitted himself to hope. Only it was a long time! Their partnership had lasted for six months, and personally he felt as far away from her now as on that first day. She had commenced by piquing his curiosity. His vanity had been a little ruffled by her calm resistance of his advances. Then the other things had come—not all at once, but gradually. To-day he knew that there could never be any other woman in the world for him.
At the club he was distrait. He wandered from the card-room, which bored him, abandoned the billiard-room without an effort to play, and finally found himself in the library, the most deserted room in the club. Its only other occupant laid down his paper at his approach and welcomed him.
“Mr. Pryde,” he said, “your coming is rather a coincidence. I was on the point of ringing the bell to ask whether you were in the club.”
Pryde looked at the speaker in surprise.
“I didn’t even know that you remembered me, Sir James,” he remarked, a little dryly.
Sir James Downson smiled as he drew up his chair. He was a tall, grey-bearded man, well groomed, his beard trimmed Vandyke fashion, a single eyeglass in his left eye. He held an official position under the Government, and was quite a distinguished member of the club.
“On the contrary, I remember you very well, Pryde,” he declared. “I was mixed up, as you can scarcely have forgotten, in that little trouble of yours at Vienna. I don’t know that there is any harm in telling you that if it had rested with me you would have been asked to stay on.”
“I am sure you are very kind,” Pryde murmured.
Sir James glanced around the room as though to make sure that they were alone.
“I have heard of you once or twice lately,” he announced, “through a friend of mine whom I need not name—you and a young lady, Miss Grace Burton, I think.”
Pryde sat quite still.
“I am told that in one or two cases,” Sir James continued, “you have shown, between you, an unusual amount of determination and ingenuity. I have a commission to offer you. Are you prepared to take it?”
“Without a doubt,” Pryde answered.
“It doesn’t seem, on the face if it, a very interesting affair,” Sir James went on. “One cannot tell, however, what it might lead to. These are the facts. About a fortnight ago, a Monsieur Dupoy came over to this country, indirectly on behalf of the French Government. I may say that we have received from them, within the course of the last few months, a strong protest against our neglect in the matter of war balloons and aeroplanes generally. Dupoy was sent here to attend some experiments at Aldershot, and to be entrusted by us with a complete scheme of our proposed reorganisation. He was to have received this at the War Office at twelve o’clock last Friday week. He presented himself at the appointed place at that time, but a few of the papers were not quite ready, and we asked him to call again the next day. Dupoy was perfectly willing. I happened to be there myself, and I invited him to dine with me that night, an invitation which he accepted at once. Since then nothing whatever has been seen of Monsieur Dupoy.”
“He disappeared?”
“Absolutely!”
“Are you sure that he did not return home?”
“Quite,” Sir James replied. “We have communicated with the French Government, and through them with his relations. No one has seen or heard anything of him since he left here last Friday week.”
“I haven’t noticed anything about it in the papers,” Pryde remarked.
Sir James smiled.
“The disappearance of Monsieur Dupoy,” he said softly, “is not one of those cases which are advertised in the Press. It may, of course, have been due to an accident in the ordinary way. The hospitals, however, have been thoroughly searched, and no trace discovered of him. It is a significant fact that, so far as anybody knew, he left the War Office a week ago last Friday with some of our proposals and scheme in his pocket.
“Where was he staying?” Pryde asked.
“At Delacher’s Hotel, on the Embankment,” Sir James replied.
“Some inquiries have been made there?”
“Naturally. Dupoy was reported to have paid his bill on the Friday morning, to have ordered his bag to be brought down, and to have gone out for half an hour to buy, he told the hotel clerk, a present for his wife. Since then he has not been heard of.”
“Do you suspect anyone?” Pryde inquired.
Sir James shrugged his shoulders. He had risen to his feet and was lighting a cigarette from a case which he passed over to Pryde.
“Not with any reason,” he answered. “Curiously enough, however, this is the third disappearance from Delacher’s Hotel within the last six weeks. It is possible that something may have happened to Dupoy quite apart from the fact that he was supposed to be carrying with him very important political documents. I don’t know whether the affair appeals to you. If it does, my department will pay exceedingly well for any satisfactory elucidation of the mystery, and will, in any case, be responsible for your expenses if you care to have a look round.”
“I am awfully obliged to you, sir,” Pryde replied. “Perhaps in a day or two I may have something to report.”
Pryde sought no longer to distract himself at bridge or billiards. He took a taxicab and drove back to his rooms, calling on his way to see Grace. She looked up at him ominously as he entered, but he only smiled.
“This,” he declared, “is no idle call. Work! Do you know anything about Delacher’s Hotel?”
She nodded.
“I know that a few weeks ago there was a diamond merchant from Hamburg who disappeared from there; and a little time before that a mysterious young woman from St. Petersburg, who had come over to look for a situation as a teacher of languages, went out one morning and never returned.”
“Good!” Pryde exclaimed. “There has been a third disappearance—a Frenchman this time.”
“How did you hear of it?” she asked quickly.
Pryde gave his small brown moustache an upward curl.
“A former chief of mine,” he explained, “a member of the Government now, has placed the affair in my hands.”
“He has probably heard of you,” she remarked quietly, “as my assistant.”
“He will hear of me some day as your—” Pryde began.
“Don’t be rash,” she interrupted. “What are you going to do?”
“I am going to stay at Delacher’s Hotel,” Pryde replied. “And you?”
“I am going to finish this typing. Tell me, before you go, about this man who has disappeared.”
Pryde imparted to her in a few words all the information he had gained from Sir James. She listened thoughtfully. When he had finished she turned back to her work.
“I wish you luck. Don’t get into trouble,” she advised him.
Pryde opened his lips, but the click of the typewriter drowned his words. He moved slowly away. At the door he looked back. Grace was absorbed in her work. He could see only the top of her light brown hair and the flashing of her fingers. With a muttered word he went up to his room.
An hour later he made his way to Charing Cross and, waiting until the arrival of the Continental train, mingled with the little stream of alighting passengers and took a taxicab to Delacher’s Hotel. A tall porter received his bag, and ushered him into the office. Pryde, whose French was perfect, asked for a room in the name of Monsieur Dupoy. The clerk stared at him for a moment. The head porter, who was a tall, olive-skinned person of great height, with a black moustache, also leaned forward with interest.
“Monsieur Dupoy!” the clerk repeated, with his pen in his hand.
Pryde nodded and glanced around as though to make sure that no one else was within hearing.
“To tell you the truth,” he announced, “I come here on behalf of the family. Only the week before last a cousin of mine was staying in this same hotel. He was to have returned to Paris last Friday week. He did not arrive. We have sent him many messages and letters. There has been no reply. It was arranged that I should come over to make inquiries.”
“But we have already written,” the clerk remarked, “informing Madame Dupoy that her husband left here on the Friday morning for the purpose, he said, of buying her a present. He did not return. He had so little luggage that we imagined he had been kept until the last moment, and then had taken the train without it sooner than be delayed. He had, in fact, merely a change of clothes and a couple of shirts with him.”
Pryde nodded.
“Up till last night,” he declared with a little gesture, “my cousin had not returned. Therefore I am here. Give me a room. I do not know what I can do, but we shall see. One must try the police.”
The clerk handed him a ticket.
“You can have the room which your cousin occupied, Monsieur Dupoy,” he said. “Number 387, on the third floor. As to the police, it is, of course, your affair, but I trust you are satisfied that nothing happened to Monsieur Dupoy under this roof?”
“Entirely,” Pryde replied. “All the evidence goes to show that he left here, as you have told me, to buy this present.”
Pryde was ushered to the lift. Until he disappeared he noticed that the head porter was watching him with ill-concealed curiosity. He was shown into an ordinary hotel bedroom on the third floor, with an outlook on to the Thames. The furniture was of the plainest, and there was no communicating door into any other room. He opened his bag, took out his clothes and glanced at his watch. It was a quarter to eight. He decided to dine in the restaurant downstairs without changing, and accordingly rang the bell and ordered some hot water. The chambermaid wished him good evening pleasantly. He slipped a half-crown into her hand.
“I may leave at any moment,” he explained. “I give you this now.”
She grabbed the money and beamed at him.
“The gentleman is very gracious,” she declared with a strong German accent.
Pryde broke into fluent German.
“You knew the occupant of this room,” he inquired, “who was here the week before last—Monsieur Dupoy?”
She nodded.
“He left his bag behind him,” she said. “He departed in a great hurry.”
“You didn’t happen to see him before he started, I suppose?” Pryde asked.
“Yes,” she answered. “Yes. He came in and washed his hands. It was the middle of the morning. He went out to eat. I know, because he said to me, ‘The food downstairs,’ he said, ‘it is good, but the room is dull. I will go somewhere more lively.’ He said that to me while I poured out his hot water.”
“Nothing about buying a present for his wife?” Pryde inquired.
The girl shook her head.
“Not to me did he speak of such a person.”
Pryde whistled softly as he went downstairs. As he crossed the hall he heard the sound of voices raised in altercation. The head porter was speaking angrily to a subordinate, who had apparently come late to relieve him. Pryde bought a paper and went into the restaurant.
He dined fairly well, but his surroundings were certainly depressing. A band, not of the first order, was playing. There were only a few diners, and these were obviously foreigners of the commercial type. One or two of the men seemed to be talking business. There were barely half a dozen women in the room. As soon as he had finished his meal, he strolled out into the hall. The man who had relieved the head porter was standing on the doorstep. Pryde strolled up to him and lit a cigarette.
“Disagreeable-looking fellow your head porter, he observed.
“It is a wonder,” the man grumbled, “that any of us stay here with him. If the management only knew—”
He hurried off to procure a taxi for a departing guest. Pryde awaited his return.
“Queer-looking fellow altogether,” he said softly. “He looks more like a head waiter than anything.”
“He was a waiter before he took on this job,” the porter remarked. “He has got a restaurant of his own now, they say. Shouldn’t care to go to it myself.”
“Why not?” Pryde inquired.
The man hesitated. He looked more closely at his questioner.
“No particular reason, sir. I don’t like Paul, that’s all. You’ll excuse me, sir?”
He walked off to attend to some alighting passengers. Pryde noticed that he seemed rather to avoid returning. When he was disengaged, however, Pryde called softly to him.
“Tell me, what is your name?” he asked.
“My name is Fritz, sir.”
“Do you happen to know mine?” Pryde continued.
“No, sir.”
“My name is Dupoy.”
“Indeed, sir? We had a Monsieur Dupoy here quite lately.”
“My cousin,” Pryde declared. “He was to have returned to Paris last Friday week. He never came, and we have been very anxious. That is why I am here.”
The porter edged a little away.
“I should go to the police, sir, and make inquiries,” he suggested.
“There are certain reasons,” Pryde said slowly, “why I would rather not do that. I thought I might be able to pick up some information here. I am willing to pay for it.”
The man smiled in somewhat mysterious fashion.
“If I were you, sir,” he whispered confidentially, “I should ask—”
“Whom?” Pryde demanded.
“Paul!”
Again he went about his business, and again Pryde waited. When he came back, however, he was uncommunicative. He kept looking behind towards the office.
“You will forgive me if I speak plainly, sir,” he said. “My first instructions when I got the job here were to keep my mouth shut. I’ve got a wife and children, and I can’t afford to run any risks. If they see you here with me and know you’re making inquiries, they’ll think I’m gassing.”
Pryde slipped a sovereign into his hand.
“What time does Paul come on duty?”
“Not for another hour, sir,” the man replied. “He is having his dinner.”
Pryde strolled back into the hotel and inquired for the manager, Mr. Delacher, who turned out to be a very polite but somewhat sombre-looking personage. Pryde introduced himself as a cousin of Monsieur Dupoy.
“I don’t know,” he said, “whether you remember my cousin? He stayed here for a day or two, and then, on the day when he should have returned home, he absolutely disappeared.”
“I remember Monsieur Dupoy perfectly,” the manager admitted. “It is true that he did not return, but, as he had paid his bill and said that he was going by the two-twenty, we concluded that he would send for his luggage afterwards.”
“You cannot help me in any way, then?” Pryde asked. “He has a wife who is altogether in despair at his absence.”
Mr. Delacher was only mildly sympathetic.
“My guests,” he explained, “come and go. Of their doings I keep no count. How Monsieur Dupoy spent his time I cannot tell. All that I know is that he paid his bill, which seems to prove that he meant to depart. You will probably find, sir, that he will return presently. He is, perhaps, at home by now.”
“I thank you very much,” Pryde said. “By the by, the face of your head porter seemed to me so familiar. Have I seen him at any of the hotels on the Continent, I wonder?”
Mr. Delacher shook his head.
“Paul has been with me for twelve years. Before that, he was at the Savoy, in Berlin. He is a very valuable servant.”
“Without a doubt,” Pryde assented. “I suppose then, you would advise me to apply to the police?”
Mr. Delacher shrugged his shoulders.
“I can see no other course, monsieur.”
Pryde strolled out along the Embankment for half an hour. When he returned, Paul was on duty—tall, austere, magnificent. He saluted Pryde in a dignified manner, but he watched him all the time as one who was scarcely satisfied. Pryde came to a standstill.
“Paul,” he said, “it is a saying in Paris that the chief porter at a London hotel can tell you anything in the world you may want to know.”
“It is an exaggeration, monsieur,” the man replied.
“It may be,” Pryde admitted. “Who can say? I search everywhere for my cousin, Eugène Dupoy. It is you who saw him last. You cannot even tell me where it was that he intended to lunch before he returned for his bag?”
Paul regarded his questioner in melancholy fashion.
“I cannot tell monsieur that,” he admitted.
“You did not know, even, how he spent his time here?”
Paul shook his head.
“He seemed to be occupied with affairs,” he announced. “On the morning of his departure he left in a state of some excitement. He had an important engagement, he said, at twelve o’clock.”
Pryde nodded.
“That is so,” he said confidentially. “The appointment, however, was postponed.”
Paul turned slowly round. His manner, in a sense, was changing.
“Some papers which my cousin was expecting were not completed,” Pryde continued. “A little affair of business. I myself am to fetch them to-morrow from the same place. That, however, is beside the point.”
There was no doubt but that Paul was an altered man. His frigidity of demeanour had departed. He apparently took the liveliest interest in his questioner.
“I am very sorry indeed, sir,” he said, “that I cannot help you. Monsieur Dupoy was a charming guest. He will, I am sure, return home safely. Monsieur remains with us long?”
Pryde shrugged his shoulders.
“What is the good?” he demanded. “Where am I to look for my dear cousin? I cannot tell. I shall finish the little matter of business which he was obliged to leave undone, and return to Paris. I have pressing business of my own which must be attended to.”
“You are not anxious, then, about your relation, sir?” Paul asked.
Pryde shook his head.
“This,” he declared, “is London. Things do not happen here. It may be an affair of a letter, ill-directed or missing. Eugène may have gone on the Continent. Who can tell?”
Paul was standing with his hands behind him. It was between nine and ten o’clock, and there was nothing whatever doing.
“It seems strange, monsieur,” he remarked, “that your cousin did not finish his business here, after all.”
“It is nothing,” Pryde answered. “Certain papers were not ready. I myself take possession of them at eleven o’clock to-morrow. I think that I shall do exactly what Eugène would have done—pay my bill when I leave here in the morning, return for my bag, and catch the two-twenty.”
“I will give orders, sir,” Paul said. “You will lunch here, sir?”
“Probably,” Pryde replied. “It is not amusing, but, although I speak English so well, I am almost a stranger in London.”
“If I might venture,” Paul suggested slowly, “there is a little restaurant in a street leading off Shaftesbury Avenue—I could give monsieur the address—where the cooking is altogether French. A most interesting place! Monsieur might see there a great singer, a dancer, an artist. The French ladies who have succeeded in London, they go there at midday. It is worth a visit.”
“The place for me, Paul!” Pryde exclaimed. “Write it down on a piece of paper.”
Paul obeyed promptly.
“It is called the Café Suprême, monsieur,” he said, handing over the card. “There are two floors. You go downstairs and ask for Jean Marchand. You will, I think, be exceedingly well served.”
“I’ll try, at all events,” Pryde decided. “I suppose I shall have plenty of time to return here and catch the two-twenty?”
“It would be advisable, monsieur,” Paul proposed, “if your bag were sent to the station to meet you. The account could be paid before you leave in the morning.”
“It is excellent,” Pryde declared. “Good night, Paul!”
“Good night, monsieur.”</story>