<story title="THE HUMAN FOUR" date="1912">
IT was nearly five o’clock before their second visitor arrived. Grace and her partner were having tea together when they heard a sharp and somewhat insistent knocking upon the door, followed by the ringing of the bell. Grace rose at once and glided into her place before the typewriter. Pryde walked to the door and threw it open. A very resplendent person stood there, sleek, black-haired, dressed in the height of fashion, Semitic. He smiled at them reassuringly; they were not to be overcome!
“My name,” he announced, removing his shiny silk hat, “ith Nathan—Mr. Richard Nathan. I called, with your permission, to make a few inquirieth.”
“Come in, Mr. Nathan,” Pryde replied quietly. “My name is Pryde. Is it I whom you want to see?”
The man’s eyes were everywhere. Suddenly he saw what he sought. The smile faded from his thick lips, the oily suaveness left him. He stared at the image upon the table. The hand which held his hat shook. He was, without doubt, agitated.
“It ith you I want to talk to, my dear Mithter Pryde,” he began. “Just a few words; most important bithneth—most important indeed; good bithneth for you.”
“Really?” Pryde remarked politely.
“Who ith the young lady?” the newcomer demanded. “Introduthe me, if you please.”
“This is Miss Grace Burton, who is good enough to do some typewriting for me,” Pryde explained. “These are really her rooms, and I don’t understand how it is that you should have come to look for me here.”
“Never mind that,” Mr. Nathan declared impressively—“never mind that. I have come to do you a good turn. I have come on a matter of motht important bithneth.”
“Would you like me to go away?” Grace asked.
Mr. Nathan nodded his head with satisfaction.
“It will be a shame to lothe you, my dear,” he said, “but the bithneth ith of a private nature.”
“Pray do not move, Miss Burton,” Pryde intervened. “I can have no business with a perfect stranger which is of any great importance so far as I am concerned. You can say anything you like to me before Miss Burton,” he went on, “and the sooner you tell me exactly what it is that has brought you here, the better I shall be pleased.”
Mr. Nathan pointed with the shining knob of his stick towards the idol. The knob quivered a little in the air.
“Very well, then,” he said. “Just as you pleathe. Where did you get that?”
Pryde, too, glanced towards the image. Was it his fancy, or was there indeed, at that moment, a red and threatening light in the deep-set eyes?
“That,” Pryde answered, “is not mine. I am keeping it on trust.”
Mr. Nathan held out his hand.
“Shake hands, sir,” he insisted. “You are an honetht young man. You shall not lose by it. Listen. I am the owner of that little curio.”
“Indeed!” Pryde replied dryly.
“Tell me at once,” Mr. Nathan begged, “why do you look at me tho doubtfully? Hath anyone elthe been here to claim it?”
“There was a man came in,” Pryde admitted, “only a few hours ago, who said very much the same as you are saying. He could not prove his ownership, however, and he grew rather offensive. In the end we were obliged to get rid of him hurriedly.”
The face of Mr. Richard Nathan became a study. He was at the same time suspicious, alarmed, and surprised.
“Went away without it,” he repeated, half to himself. “Came here and went away without it! You are sure he thaw it?”
“Oh! the person I am speaking of saw it all right,” Pryde declared. “I don’t see what that has to do with it. Now, please, get on with what you have to say.”
Mr. Nathan nodded. A possible explanation had suggested itself to him. He kept edging a little nearer to the idol.
“I should like to egthamin the image for a few minutes, jutht to be sure that it ith mine,” Mr. Nathan said. “There are tho many imitationth about.”
Pryde took it up and placed it in his visitor’s hands. For a single second Mr. Nathan looked like making a bolt. Grace had opened the drawer on her right-hand side and Pryde was standing on the alert. Mr. Nathan glanced from one to the other and sighed. With obvious reluctance he set the idol down.
“Ugly thing, ithn’t it?” he remarked.
“Shocking!” Pryde agreed.
“Dear me! Dear me!” Mr. Nathan went on. “And this person who wath here before me thaw this little image too; but you were not able to come to termth, tho he went away and left it, eh?”
“Precisely,” Pryde assented quietly. “Just in the same way that within a few minutes you also will, I fear, have to tear yourself away and leave the idol here.”
Nathan opened his lips and closed them again. He looked at Pryde and he looked at Grace. Then he set down his hat and cane on a chair.
“Look here,” he said, “for all our thakes I will not wathte time. I have come here for this idol. What ith it worth to you?”
Pryde shrugged his shoulders. He took the image into his fingers and held it out at arm’s length.
“It isn’t much to look at,” he remarked thoughtfully.
“It ithn’t much to look at,” Mr. Nathan agreed, “and you know very well that you have no right to it at all. It was thrutht into your possession by a man in his latht momenth. He was half blinded, and he mithtook you for one of uth.”
Pryde nodded.
“That is exactly the position.”
“You want to make thomething by the mithtake,” Mr. Nathan then continued. “It ith natural. I will not beat about the buth. I will not tell you any lieth. I am not a curio dealer. That idol representh more to me than to anyone else in life. I want it. I mutht have it. It ith in your possession by chanthe—an evil chanthe for me. Very well, I will pay. Look here.”
He tore his coat open and drew out a thick bundle of bank-notes. He threw them upon the table.
“Count them! Count them!” he cried. “I am treating you like a printhe. There’th eight hundred pounds there of the betht. Count them! That ought to pay you, oughtn’t it? Eight hundred poundth for a copper idol. Good God!”
Pryde’s grip upon the image in his hand had perhaps changed a little. His forefinger had pressed more tightly upon a projection of the backbone. The head flew sharply back. Pryde started, lowered his hand, and a wonderful stream seemed suddenly to flow on to the carpet, a stream of liquid fire—of ruby fire, of green fire, of white, brilliant iridescence. Grace and Pryde were themselves almost stupefied. Then Nathan, with a howl, threw himself upon his knees and began to grope about desperately. Pryde caught him by the collar and dragged him away.
“So this is what you are trying to buy for eight hundred pounds, is it, my friend?” he exclaimed. “No, let them lie there! They’re safe enough. I’ll collect them afterwards.”
For a moment the man seemed about to throw himself upon Pryde. He was trembling in every limb. His face was convulsed. The passion of greed was making him almost courageous.
“You have no claim to the jewelth!” he snarled. “They belong to uth!”
“That, my friend,” Pryde remarked dryly, “I should be inclined to doubt.”
Nathan staggered to his feet. The telephone bell was ringing. He turned sharply towards it.
“What’th that?”
“Only one of my clients,” Grace answered calmly. “Are you there?” she went on. “Yes, the second lot of folios will be ready in a very few moments now; the third lot probably to-night. . . . Yes! . . . Yes! . . . Quite, thank you. . . . Good-bye!”
Mr. Nathan wiped his forehead. He was not a very pleasant sight.
“Look here,” he said to Pryde, “we don’t need to quarrel. It’th an infernal piece of luck, but you’ve thtumbled into this. There’th enough for all of uth. Turn them out upon the table. We’ll share them up, you and I; half for me, half between you two. That’th fair, ithn’t it? Only let’s do the job quickly and let me get off. There’s sixty thousand poundth’ worth of jewelth there. You’re made for life, and if you take my advithe, you’ll clear out. I can give you an addreth or two in Amtherdam where you can get rid of them, if you want to know.”
Pryde shook his head.
“Mr. Nathan,” he declared, “you are wasting your time. Neither this young lady nor I myself have the slightest idea of benefiting by the possession of these jewels. We have grave doubts,” he went on, with a faint smile at the corners of his lips, “as to how they may have come into your possession. We shall run no risk in the matter. We shall seal the idol up, and if no one comes here to lay claim to it with better credentials than you and your friend during the next twenty-four hours, we shall send it to Scotland Yard.”
Nathan glared at them. He was half suspicious, half stupefied.
“You mean that you are on the straight?” he demanded fiercely.
“Absolutely,” Pryde assured him. “I must admit that I had some sympathy for that poor fellow when I saw him being chivied, and I meant to keep possession of the little idol until some authenticated person came to claim it. Now, of course, it is a different thing. I shall keep it only for another twenty-four hours.”
Mr. Nathan opened his mouth and closed it again. He looked at the carpet, he looked at the idol, he looked at Grace, and he looked at Pryde.
“God bless my thoul!” he spluttered. “Are you mad, both of you? Don’t you want money? Don’t you know what money ith?”
“We want it very badly sometimes,” Pryde replied, “but, you see, there is always the risk that these jewels may not have been honestly come by.”
Mr. Nathan tried to speak and failed. He had no words. Very slowly he took up his hat, brushed it with his coat sleeve, and turned towards the door.
“If I hear that the poor fellow hath left any written inthtructionth,” he promised, “I will let you know. I understand you to thay that you will keep the jewels for at leatht twenty-four hours?”
Pryde nodded. Mr. Nathan turned away to hide a somewhat curious expression at the corners of his lips.
“Very well,” he said, “I wish you good afternoon. You are very honetht, both of you. I hope you will find that honethty will pay.”
He walked out, slamming the door a little behind him. They heard his retreating footsteps. Grace touched the bell at her feet and raised the telephone receiver once more to her ear.
“Our visitor,” she announced softly, “has just left. Please do not let anything important happen just round here. There is one more to come. . . . Yes, quite all right, thank you. . . . Good-bye!”
She laid the receiver down.
“After all,” Pryde remarked, “our friend Mr. Nathan was not one of the fighting sort. Somehow or other I fancy that our last visitor, if he comes, may be different.”
That night, for the first time, Pryde dined with his partner. Their meal, sent in from a neighbouring restaurant, was by no means an elaborate one, nor did Grace unbend in the least. Nevertheless, Pryde began to feel more cheerful. The living together through these few thrilling moments of adventure could scarcely fail, at any rate, to foster the spirit of comradeship. She trusted him, too—had confidence in him. It was impossible, he told himself, that she was really so cold and sexless as she appeared. The evening wore on. Occasionally they heard the lift pass up; oftener still there were footsteps on the stairs. Their expected visitor, however, did not arrive. Towards ten o’clock was always a quiet time in the flats. There were very few people coming or going. With the silence Pryde became conscious of a curious feeling of uneasiness. He found himself watching the door every moment.
“I wonder,” he said, half to himself, “what devilish scheme this man who calls himself the professor will invent?”
Grace looked up from the book which she had been reading. There was not the slightest sign of excitement in her face. Her hair was primly arranged, drawn back tightly with the obvious intent to nullify its natural fluffiness. Her plain black dress was unrelieved by even a touch of white at the neck. Her cheeks were as pale as ever.
“You must bear in mind,” she reminded him, “that neither Mr. Nathan nor his predecessor will have had an opportunity of communicating with him. If they had any plans for meeting formed, he may have become suspicious. On the other hand, he may believe that they have gone off with the jewels, very much as Mr. Nathan believed that the first man was trying to do. He will probably come quite harmlessly, and with very much the same sort of offers. Listen!”
Pryde could hear nothing, but Grace crossed the room swiftly and seated herself before her typewriter. The green-shaded lamp was already in position, a half-finished sheet of manuscript in the machine. She began to work. With one hand she opened the drawer on her right-hand side.
“Be careful,” she whispered. “Someone is fitting a key into the latch.”
Almost as she spoke the door was noiselessly opened. A hand flashed through the crack and touched the knob which controlled the electric lights. The room was in darkness except for the lamp by Grace’s side. A man slipped quickly in and closed the door behind him.
“The lamp,” he remarked, “is unfortunate.”
He was a man of about middle height, of most ordinary appearance. A black overcoat, which fitted him none too well, hung about his spare form. He had a pronounced stoop, gold-rimmed spectacles, and white, untidy hair rather long at the back. He wore a bowler hat with a broad brim. He stood a few yards inside the room, both hands concealed in his overcoat pockets.
“Young lady,” he said calmly, “and you, sir, you may be expecting me—you may not. There is a little mystery concerned with this room and its occupants which I have not yet solved, but in case my suspicions of you both are correct, let me warn you that however quickly your hands may go to your pockets, they would not go quickly enough, for I am holding a pistol in either hand, and I learned to shoot through my pockets a good many years ago. You see?”
Grace looked at him, unmoved, from over the top of her typewriter.
“You are quite sure, sir, that you are not making a mistake?” she asked.
“I am making no mistake,” the new-comer assured them grimly. “I have come to recover a piece of property which you may or may not know about. There it stands upon the table—ugly, grinning monstrosity. Now, I’ll buy it from you or fight for it, whichever you like; but I have come for my idol, and I am not used to paying visits in vain.”
He came a little closer to them. It was quite clear that he had been speaking the truth. The outline of the pistols was there, showing from inside his overcoat pockets. One was directed towards Pryde, one towards Grace. Suddenly the telephone bell rang.
“If you answer that,” the professor said softly, “I shall shoot. You may be honest fools, you may be criminals yourselves, you may be creatures of the police. I am taking no risks. Dead men and women are the safest witnesses.”
He spoke in a slow, almost monotonous tone but with a manner curiously impressive. Somehow or other they both of them felt that he was a being of a different order from either Nathan or his predecessor. The Master was there. Grace knew perfectly well that if she even stretched out her hand towards the receiver of the telephone he would keep his word.
“Thank you,” she faltered. “I am terrified to death. I can assure you that I shall let the telephone ring.”
Their visitor moved a step or two nearer still. He was now within a few feet of them.
“You are not terrified to death,” he said coldly. “That is what alarms me. I will confess to you that I have the feeling that I am in a trap, but in case you are deriving any satisfaction from that fact, let me assure you that if I am, you both of you will answer for it with your lives. You know who I am? I am Helski, chief of the Human Four. I have killed a dozen men this year. I believe in killing; it has become an art with me. If it were not for the noise, I think I should kill you both, just as a precaution. Young lady,” he added, a peremptory note in his tone, “get up. Into that corner, if you please. I don’t like the way your hand is prowling around that drawer. Quick!”
She hesitated only for a single moment. Then she rose.
“Back! And you too!” the professor ordered, turning suddenly to Pryde. “No nonsense! I could shoot your teeth away one by one if I chose. Back, both of you!”
They obeyed. He looked into the drawer. From the drawer he looked back again into their faces, and there was something terrible in his silence. He drew his hands from his pockets. He held a repeating pistol in either hand.
“Bring me that idol,” he directed Pryde. “Bring it here and place it on the table before me.”
Pryde walked slowly to the other end of the room, took up the image and brought it towards the table. He was within about a yard of his destination when the door was suddenly opened. The professor turned like lightning. The doorway was full of men. An inspector in peaked cap and uniform was foremost; a detective in plain clothes by his side. The professor’s arm shot out, and Pryde, without hesitation, threw himself bodily upon him, jerking his arm towards the ceiling. The next second he himself was thrown half-way across the room. With amazing ease his assailant had freed himself. He dropped on his knees behind the writing-table. The dull metal of his pistol gleamed wickedly in the light of the green-shaded lamp. His left hand, also clasping a pistol, was stretched out behind him.
“Ah!” he muttered. “I see some friends. Mr. Detective Simmons, I think; Inspector Johnson. Not a step nearer, please. Remember, I have nothing to lose by killing a few more of you. These are my last moments. I want to think.”
There was a queer, breathless silence. Pryde was still lying where he had been thrown, and had the air of being unconscious. Grace had advanced towards him, but had suddenly stopped and retreated. She was sheltered now behind an easy chair. Then the inspector spoke.
“Better give yourself up, Helski. There’s no hope for you. We’ve other men upon the stairs.”
“You are right,” the professor admitted. “I have fought too many battles not to know when the end has come; but don’t any of you flatter yourselves that I walked blindfolded into this trap. I knew very well that the odds were ten to one against me, but I have never learnt the trick of poverty. If I could have got away with our little friend here, you’d never have been troubled with me any more.”
“Put up your hands, Helski,” the inspector ordered. “I am coming to take you.”
The man’s pistol never wavered. Only for one second he glanced around and back again. Pryde was lying quite still; Grace was out of sight.
“I am not quite ready yet, Inspector,” he said softly. “I have no grudge against you. Stay where you are. I have a matter of twelve lives here. I don’t think it will pay you to rush me. You know I don’t often miss. Sergeant Cresswell found that out in Swan Alley. One or two others discovered it in their time, too. I shouldn’t advise you to try any tricks. Where’s the girl?”
There was no reply.
“I have a sort of fancy,” the professor went on, speaking almost as though to himself, “that she is the brains of this enterprise. I have a sort of fancy,” he repeated, “that she is the person I ought to reckon with. I wonder!”
Once more he turned his head, looking back again instantly.
“Ah!” he proceeded, “behind that easy chair! A very insufficient shelter, an easy chair. I think I can do a little damage through that. Mr. Inspector, I congratulate you. You will probably effect my capture without the loss of a single one of your force. It’s the girl I’ll settle accounts with this time.”
His pistol covered them no longer. He swung round, turning towards the easy chair. Then Pryde, who had been creeping gradually closer, gathered himself up and sprang at him. The attack was so unexpected that for a moment Pryde had the advantage. From the first he knew that he was struggling with a stronger man, but it was a matter of seconds only. He went for the hands which held the pistols, forcing them towards the floor. For the first few seconds he was successful. Then slowly his arms, inch by inch, were forced back. The right hand with the pistol in it came travelling round towards the easy chair. Pryde’s strength was almost exhausted, but it lasted long enough. The affair, after all, was only one of seconds. The inspector and policemen were swarming around. With a blow of his truncheon the former knocked the weapon out of the hand of the professor, and a policeman, stooping down, kicked the other one from the man’s doubled-up left arm. Even then the struggle was not over. With a cry of rage the trapped man flung himself, unarmed as he was, upon them all. One of the policemen went over like a ninepin. For a moment it seemed as though he would break through them. Then the inspector seized him from behind, a policeman tripped him. It was several moments before they could handcuff him. They got him out of the room at last. The inspector lingered behind.
“Young lady,” he said to Grace, “this is the best day’s work you’ve ever done. We’ve got the lot.”
“Keep me out of it,” she begged.
“We’ll keep you out of everything except the reward,” the inspector replied, holding out his hand to Pryde. “That was a brave tackle of yours, sir,” he declared. “We should have had to shoot if you hadn’t been there, and we mightn’t have been in time. Good night!”
He hurried off. Pryde turned, with a little shiver, to the girl who was standing by his side. She was absolutely unruffled. Even her hair was still perfectly tidy. She was looking towards the wall by the side of the door, with a slight frown upon her face.
“I must have that switch moved to-morrow,” she said.</story>