<story title="BACK IN BERMONDSEY" date="1914">
PRYDE presented himself at two o’clock the next day at a large and gloomy-looking house in Bermondsey, a house which had once belonged to a manufacturer of leather who had chosen to live near his works, but which stood now in almost pitiful isolation, with a tan-yard at the back of it, and a row of small shops on either side. A woman admitted him, a woman who was neatly dressed, but who wore no cap and had not the manners of a servant. He passed along a bare hall and was shown into a large, untidy-looking study. Mr. Cammerley looked up from his desk as Pryde approached, but did not offer his hand or attempt any form of conventional greeting. He pointed, however, to a plain deal chair close at hand.
“I do not understand,” he said, “why you have come to see me. Your card says that you are a journalist. One paper has already turned me inside out and indulged in a photographic representation of the person I am not, and given a faithful description of the things I did not say and the views which I do not hold. Surely one is enough?”
“These are curious days,” Pryde remarked, setting his hat upon the table. “The whole reading public is crazy for personalities.”
The man behind the desk looked at him steadfastly. It seemed to Pryde that those light-coloured eyes were growing larger behind his spectacles.
“What is the name of your paper?” he asked.
“I am a reporter on the Daily Observer,” Pryde told him.
“You are also a liar,” Mr. Cammerley said calmly. “Your name is Pryde, and, with a certain young lady as your partner, you have been teaching Scotland Yard their business for the last few months. Now, sir, what the devil do you mean by coming to see me under false pretences? Is there any mystery connected with me or my life? Is there anything you wish to discover?”
Pryde shut up his notebook. He had the curious sense of being in the presence of a man who could read his innermost thoughts.
“To tell you the truth,” he confessed, “I was wondering whether you could not give me some information with regard to the Silent People?”
Mr. Cammerley continued to look steadily at him.
“Supposing I could,” he asked, “why should I? You are a stranger to me. There is a thousand pounds reward offered for information of these people. Why should you associate me with them?”
“You are a Socialist,” Pryde reminded him. “You speak with wonderful restraint, but that very restraint is impressive. I heard you yesterday afternoon in the House of Commons. I may be wrong, but to me you seemed to represent the type of man who would go to any lengths if he considered himself justified by his principles.”
“For an inquiry agent,” Mr. Cammerley declared, “you certainly do seem to be possessed of a certain amount of perception as regards elementary facts. How much of this interview is going in your paper?”
“Not a word,” Pryde replied.
“So I imagined,” Mr. Cammerley remarked dryly. “Then listen. You are right. I am an anarchist, if you like to use the word. That is to say, I would, if I had the power, rend this country from north to south that the better days might dawn. I would do evil that good may come.”
“It is a dangerous doctrine.”
Mr. Cammerley raised his eyebrows.
“A surgeon cuts off your leg that he may save your life.”
“He obeys fixed laws,” Pryde retorted, “and the disease is a matter of fact, not principle.”
Mr. Cammerley smiled indulgently. He glanced at the papers before him.
“Mr. Pryde,” he said, “you are wasting my time. I have no desire to make a convert of you.”
“Tell me something about the Silent People,” Pryde persisted, “and I will go.”
Cammerley rose slowly from his place and moved to the door. He held it open and turned his face towards the stairs.
“Lucy!” he called.
An answer came from above. Cammerley remained with the door open. In a few moments a woman appeared, a woman broadly built, with a dark, square face, a slight down upon the upper lip, and beautiful eyes—the eyes of an enthusiast. Her hair was parted simply in the middle. It was black and shiny, and there were large quantities of it. Her dress was plain in the extreme. She looked from Cammerley to Pryde.
“It is a young man,” Cammerley explained softly, “who has come here in the guise of a reporter to know if I can tell him anything about the Silent People.”
Not a muscle of her face changed, only a sudden light shone in her eyes. Pryde, who was glancing at her, shivered. For some mysterious reason he felt that he was in danger.
“This visitor of ours,” Cammerley continued, looking at Pryde dispassionately, “has been associated with a young lady in various investigations during the last few months. He would call himself, I suppose, a private inquiry agent, or something of the sort. He has become interested in the craze of the moment. He is exceedingly curious about the Silent People.”
The woman sighed. When she spoke it was with a slight foreign accent.
“What is it that one hears about them?” she murmured. “There have been others who have sought to discover their identity—others who are themselves silent now for ever.”
“The young man,” Cammerley said thoughtfully, “is of a harmless type.”
Pryde, as he stood there, was conscious of soft footsteps in the hall, footsteps which seemed to gather volume all the time, not the footsteps of one or two people, but the footsteps of dozens.
“You were looking for adventures, perhaps, my young friend,” Cammerley continued. “You have been successful. Someone who visited me once remarked that this might well be a house of mysteries, so strangely situated in such a neighbourhood. Perhaps it is. Look!”
He pushed the door a little farther open. The hall seemed filled with men, men who were waiting patiently, men who exchanged not a syllable, pale-faced most of them, dressed in the garb of operatives, with something curious about them which, although he did not understand it, made Pryde shiver. Cammerley closed the door again.
“As I think that you knew before you came,” he said quietly, “you are in the presence of the Silent People—Lucy Fragade and I, myself. Those outside have also learnt the gift of silence. They are some of those who do our bidding.”
Pryde stared at the woman. The name was well enough known to him—Lucy Fragade, who had been expelled from Russia, imprisoned in America, imprisoned again in Germany, and forced to escape from France; the daughter of an anarchist, a woman who preached force and bloodshed with an eloquence which no man of her cause had ever approached. He recognised her from her portraits. She was gazing at him fixedly.
“There is a room at the back of this house,” Cammerley continued, “into which others have been invited who have come as you have come, and the world has seen no more of them. The river flows within forty yards of my back door, and the tanyard is empty at night. I am afraid, Mr. Pryde, that the public will have to wait a little time for that interview with me which you proposed writing.”
Pryde looked from one to the other. Up to the present moment, at any rate, he had felt no fear. Yet there was something a little disquieting in the expression with which they regarded him; something ominous, too, in that sense of men waiting without. He remembered several disappearances lately. He knew suddenly that murder had been done in this place. Yet he was still without fear. Perhaps he was to some extent a fatalist. Death seemed to him always a thing so unlikely.
“I shall be missed,” he remarked affably. “Miss Burton knows that I have come to see you.”
Cammerley nodded.
“The young lady who overheard our conversation at the Forward Club,” he explained to Lucy. “It is a pity that she did not accompany you, sir.”
“Perhaps,” Pryde replied, “she is better where she is!”
The telephone bell rang. Cammerley held the receiver to his ear.
“This is Mr. Cammerley speaking,” he declared. “What can I do for you? Yes, Mr. Pryde is here. You are Miss Grace Burton.”
Pryde made a movement towards the telephone, but stopped.
“No, I am afraid that I cannot say,” Cammerley continued, “what time Mr. Pryde will return. He will leave this room in a few minutes. As for the rest, it is difficult. Yes, I understand.”
He listened for some time. His face showed no change of expression. He glanced towards the clock.
“Very well,” he said, “the course you suggest will be quite agreeable to me. It would give me great pleasure to meet you. Yes, pray come. As you say, it is only an affair of ten minutes in a taxicab.”
Pryde sprang towards the telephone.
“She shall not come!” he shouted.
Mr. Cammerley handed him the receiver.
“Really,” he said, “you people are wasting a lot of our time this afternoon. Tell her yourself to keep away, then.”
Pryde snatched the receiver.
“Miss Burton!” he called out, “Grace, are you there? Grace!”
“Miss Burton is here,” was the calm reply.
“You are not to come to this man’s house,” Pryde exclaimed. “If you do, don’t come alone. You understand?”
“Quite well. There is probably a slight misunderstanding. Au revoir!”
“Listen!” Pryde begged.
The connection was gone. Cammerley removed the instrument out of reach with a little sigh.
“My dear Mr. Pryde,” he said, “the young lady is evidently accustomed to having her own way. Who can blame her? Miss Fragade is a little like that, too. Now how shall we spend the time until Miss Burton arrives? Would you like to see round the place? Would you care to stroll through the tanyard down to the river? There is a room here which Lucy calls our chamber of horrors. Perhaps you would like to see that? Or would you like to make the acquaintance of our bodyguard—fifty strange-looking men? Most of them now, I suppose, have gone back to their posts, but there will be a few remaining.”
He swung open the door. There were a dozen men still in the hall, standing against the wall almost like statues. Their eyes were fixed upon Mr. Cammerley. They seemed ready to obey his slightest gesture. Pryde glanced for a moment at the front door, but Cammerley smiled.
“The only modern thing about the place,” he remarked. “A double lock of really wonderful pattern. Would you like to see some of my books? Or would it amuse you to hear Lucy talk of her Continental experiences?”
The telephone bell rang again. Cammerley spoke, apparently to a whip in the House of Commons.
“I shall be in my place at four o’clock,” Pryde heard him say. “The division, I suppose, is not likely to come on before dinner-time? Thank you. An interesting thing, the telephone,” he continued, replacing the receiver and turning to Pryde. “It seems to bring one so into touch with the outside world from the most impossible places, doesn’t it? I sometimes wonder whether these people who ring me up from the House of Commons know what my home is really like. Ah, the taxicab! Stay here, please, Mr. Pryde. Miss Burton will be properly received without a doubt.”
Grace was ushered into the room a moment later by the grey-haired woman who had admitted Pryde himself. She was, as usual, exceedingly quiet in her manner and very self-composed.
“It is Mr. Cammerley, is it not?” she inquired, holding out her hand. “And I am sure that this is Lucy Fragade? It is very interesting to meet you both.”
Cammerley smiled.
“Without flattery,” he remarked, “I may say that there have been many who have found it interesting.”
Grace was standing between Lucy Fragade and Cammerley. She seemed very small.
“I have come,” she announced, “to take Mr. Pryde back with me.”
Lucy Fragade looked at her curiously. Cammerley smiled.
“Mr. Pryde was a little lonely,” he said. “I have no doubt that he will find your coming of benefit to him.”
“Ours must be only a flying visit,” Grace continued quietly. “Before I go there is a question I have wanted to ask Mr. Cammerley ever since I knew of his existence. This will probably be my only chance. Should I be too exacting if I begged for—say, thirty seconds in which to ask it?”
“I have no secrets,” Cammerley replied. “Pray ask your question.”
Grace looked at him intently. She said nothing. Her face was, in a sense, inexpressive. Yet Cammerley’s eyebrows came a little closer together.
“It was a question,” she murmured, “which occurred to me first when I heard that Blanche Fragade was indeed—”
“Lucy Fragade,” the woman interrupted.
Grace accepted, the correction, but she did not at once continue. She was looking steadfastly at Cammerley. There was perhaps no one else in the room who noticed any change in him. Yet Pryde, who was nearest, and who found the temperature of the apartment on the cold side, was suddenly surprised to see two little drops of perspiration standing out on the man’s forehead. Cammerley looked towards the woman and said something to her in a strange tongue which neither Pryde nor Grace understood. She nodded and left the room. Cammerley leaned a little towards Grace as she passed out.
“Go on,” he said.
“Is there any need?” Grace asked calmly. “I have a friend in Cyril Mansions. The letter is ready for the post—if we do not return.”
Cammerley’s face was for a moment like the face of a skeleton. His eyes shone large behind his spectacles. His lips had parted.
“Your terms?” he whispered.
“This is not our affair,” Grace said softly. “I was wrong to send him here,” she added, motioning towards Pryde. “I, too, am of the people. So long as it is not life you take, he and I are silent.”
Cammerley asked for no pledge. He understood. For a moment he listened. Then he led the way towards the door. In the hall several shadowy figures came stealing towards them. He waved them back and opened the front door.
“You will find a taxicab at the corner,” he said.
At the corner of the street they stopped to look around them. Pryde glanced back at the house which they had left. Behind it was the tanyard, and a little farther away they could see the masts of shipping in the river.
“A queer place,” Grace observed composedly. “They say that he is a real philanthropist. His house is filled with all sorts of outcasts from the streets, to whom he gives temporary shelter. That is the reason he lives there.”
“Is it?” Pryde replied dryly. “There is nothing would please me better than to go over it with half a dozen policemen at my back.”
She shook her head.
“It is forbidden. I think those two people, mistaken though they may be, represent things with which we do better not to interfere.”
“At least,” Pryde asked, “I may inquire who Blanche is?”
“But for Blanche,” Grace told him, “I should never have suffered you to go to that man’s house, because I know that they are suspicious of you and of me. Blanche is Lucy Fragade’s sister. She left her home mysteriously some years ago. Lucy does not know where she is. Philip Cammerley does. There are only two things in life greater than that woman’s devotion to her cause. One was her love for her sister; the other her passion for Cammerley. I should say that he was a man who feared but one thing in the world. When I spoke he saw the possibility of it.”
Pryde sighed as he handed her into a taxicab.
“There seems to be a weak spot in the life of every strong man,” he remarked, “and that weak spot is always a woman. Even with myself—”
“Don’t talk nonsense!” she interrupted.</story>