<story title="THE ETERNAL WEAKNESS" date="1912">
MONSIEUR SENN was punctual to the moment on the following morning. Grace sighed as she saw the big bunch of pink roses which he was carrying.
“Mademoiselle permits this slight token of my devotion,” he murmured, as he handed them to her.
“Mademoiselle,” she replied quietly, “is this morning a typist. Have you brought me any work?”
“I have scarcely gone far enough with my business,” Monsieur Senn explained. “Presently, without a doubt, I shall be able to offer mademoiselle all that she can undertake.”
Grace looked at him reproachfully.
“And you promised to bring me some this morning!” she declared. “Why, I refused a very good engagement for the whole day.”
He put his hand to his pocket, and drew it away again.
“Do you understand German, mademoiselle?” he asked.
She shook her head.
“Alas, not one word!”
“Are you perfectly certain of that?”
“Absolutely,” she sighed. “I am not proud of it, I can assure you. I know that I ought to have learnt German.”
He drew an envelope from his pocket.
“I have a letter here which I should like to have copied,” he said. “I received it this morning, and I should like to send away a copy this afternoon to Constantinople.”
She took it from his fingers and looked at it.
“It will be awfully hard to copy,” she confessed. “Won’t you translate it to me?”
He shook his head.
“I could not do that,” he said. “It concerns a rather important matter in which I am interested just now. Do you think you could copy it just as it is?”
She placed it on the rest by her side, and put some paper in her machine.
“Will you call again, monsieur,” she asked, “or will you sit in my easy chair while I work?”
“The latter, by all means, if I may,” he begged. “It is delightful to have the privilege of watching you.”
It seemed to be the sole privilege Monsieur Senn was likely to enjoy, for Grace, when she had stuck the paper into the machine, took no further notice of him. Very slowly and very painstakingly she finished her copy.
“I hope there are no mistakes,” she said, looking it through with her pencil in her hand. “It’s all like Greek to me, and knowing the sense of a thing helps one so much.”
He smiled.
“Now if you’ll write just one letter home for me,” he suggested, “to an address which I will give you, I can enclose this copy, and then perhaps I might induce you to come for a little lunch. I have one call to make first.”
She shook her head.
“Not to-day, I am afraid, Monsieur Senn.”
“Ah! but you are not going to be unkind to me?” he begged. “Come with me to Regent Street or Bond Street. We will find a jeweller’s shop, and I will buy you something to repay you for this little labour.”
“The charge for that,” she said, “will be five shillings. I never wear jewellery.”
He laughed outright.
“But you are droll, mademoiselle,” he declared. “If I offer jewellery to a lady, it is not, I can assure you, of the value of five shillings.”
“That,” she replied quietly, “is all you owe me, and I never accept more than I am owed.”
He made a little grimace.
“Well,” he said, counting out the money upon the table, “can I persuade you to come a little way with me—drive in the Park for a short time, and sit in the car while I make my call afterwards?”
She looked out of the window wistfully.
“It would be delightful,” she murmured. “Yes, I think I will!”
“Capital! We will speak about lunch afterwards.”
She crossed the room towards the door of the inner apartment.
“You will wait for me here, Monsieur Senn,” she said, turning round upon the threshold. “I shall not be long.”
He looked after her doubtfully. Then he shrugged his shoulders and lit a cigarette.
“A queer little creature,” he muttered to himself. “Sometimes she puzzles me.”
He had a car waiting below, and they drove for a time in the Park. Then they turned out into Park Lane, and drew up before a fine house in Portman Square.
“I may leave you for ten minutes?” he asked.
“Certainly,” she replied.
She remained inside the motor-car. It was fully half an hour before he reappeared. He came down the steps walking blithely.
“Come,” he insisted, “we must take luncheon together. I have been in luck this morning. After all, I think that things will go well with me.”
“But I thought you were in business,” she remarked. “You cannot do business in palaces.”
He smiled.
“Ah! dear mademoiselle,” he murmured, “there are many kinds of business. Why should I keep it a secret from you that part of my mission in this country is to bring relief to my suffering country-people?”
“You are really, then,” she said, “a politician? Yet I thought that Mr. Pryde told me that the gentleman you were with last night was a merchant.”
He nodded.
“Politics and commerce, you know, go hand in hand. I have a great esteem for Mr. Hutchinson, but, alas! he is an Englishman, and up to the present English people have shown scant sympathy with us.”
“Perhaps it was a little your own fault,” she pointed out. “I don’t think that Servia or Bulgaria, for instance, has ever found you a very amiable neighbour.”
“You speak as one of the civilized West,” he remarked. “Western methods are not suitable for such countries.”
“Perhaps not,” she answered lightly. “In any case, what does it matter? I know so little about these things.”
“Quite wisely,” he declared. “That is another peculiarity of ours in the East. We do not like our womenkind to worry too much about the serious affairs of life. Now, mademoiselle, we are at Prince’s. You cannot refuse me.”
“But indeed I must,” she assured him, smiling. “I have an appointment at one o’clock which I must keep. You said nothing about luncheon yesterday, you know. If to-morrow—”
He sighed. “Mademoiselle, to-morrow I present myself again.”
“You will have some work?” she asked.
“Without a doubt,” he promised. “I shall order my man to take you home. And to-night—must I dine alone? Ah, mademoiselle, you will not be so unkind!”
She shook her head smilingly. “Until to-morrow!” she cried, waving her hand.
Grace lunched at the Café Lugano, where, as usual, Pryde sat at a table at the other end of the room. She left when he did, and joined him at the door.
“Will you walk back with me?” she invited.
“You have news?”
She nodded.
“Monsieur Senn came this morning. He had forgotten to bring any work, but when he saw how disappointed I was he brought out a long German letter. Before he would give it me to copy, he asked me whether I knew German. I told him ‘no.’?”
“But you speak German like a native!” he exclaimed.
“I did not like to parade my accomplishments before Monsieur Senn,” she said, smiling. “He gave me the letter to copy. It was from the Austrian Embassy. It contained an appointment for three o’clock to-morrow afternoon, and a specific statement, signed by the Ambassador himself.”
“So far it is quite interesting,” Pryde decided thoughtfully. “The situation is clear enough. Unfortunately, it all hinges upon this interview at three o’clock. I am afraid that neither you nor I have much chance of being present at that.”
“He is coming again to-morrow,” she announced. “I told him that he must bring me some work.”
Pryde shook his head.
“You will never be able to turn his head so completely that he will give you the terms of a secret understanding to copy!”
“He believes that I do not understand a word of German,” she remarked. “I think, too, that he will be glad of any excuse to come.”
“I am not at all sure,” Pryde said deliberately, “that I am glad we took this affair up.”
She sighed contentedly.
“I am,” she declared. “I feel that it gives me scope. Tell me, what have you been doing this morning?”
“I have been down to see my friend Mr. Hutchinson,” Pryde answered. “He has been giving me quite a lot of useful information. We have had a little political discussion, too. His idea is that England ought to stop the war. Egypt already is in a state of ferment. The unrest will reach India before long. In the meantime, are you going to see Monsieur Senn again to-day?”
“He has asked me to dine with him,” Grace remarked demurely.
Pryde stopped short in the middle of the pavement. Grace laughed at him.
“Please don’t be silly, Mr. Pryde,” she said. “You have not the slightest right to mind whether I dine with him or not. Besides, this is a matter of business.”
“I don’t like the fellow,” Pryde declared. “You don’t know the type.”
“I am so well able to take care of myself,” Grace replied, “that, if I had thought it politic, I should certainly have dined with him. As it is, I have imagined an engagement. If he brings me the typing I expect to-morrow—”
“Well?”
“I shall have no engagement.”
IT was twenty minutes to four when Monsieur Senn presented himself at Grace’s rooms on the following afternoon. This time he brought no roses. He entered in haste. He was pale and obviously agitated. He sank almost at once into a chair, but a moment later he had dragged it up to her side.
“Mademoiselle,” he begged, “permit that I lock your door. I have been watched—I am sure of it. I fear that I may be followed here.”
“You may lock the door if you wish,” Grace assented.
He rose and turned the key. When he came back, he at once resumed his place by her side.
“Mademoiselle,” he said, “I have a short dispatch to give you. Also, I would like you to type me a cable. If I spell the words, you can take down in German?”
“Certainly!”
“I must get this off my mind,” he went on. “Until then I may not even look into your charming eyes.”
“I am quite ready,” Grace told him.
For an hour or more he dictated. Grace took down all that was given to her with expressionless face. She gave at no time the slightest indication that she understood the sense of the words which he was dictating. When it was finished, he threw himself back in his chair and lit a cigarette.
“Mademoiselle,” he declared, “I am exhausted.”
“You have been very busy,” she murmured.
“Busy indeed,” he replied. “I have had a conference of great importance. I have had to deal with a man. But even to you it is better that I do not talk of these things. I will go now and send that cable and post the dispatch. Forgive me if I address it myself. It is better that you know nothing. Afterwards, alas! I must dine formally at the Aust—at my friend’s. To-morrow night—you will dine with me to-morrow night?”
“If you really wish it.”
“Until then I may kiss the fingers of mademoiselle?” he pleaded. “If I hasten now, it is because to-day is for duty. To-morrow, if all goes well, I shall indeed be happy.”
Pryde came in a few minutes later. Grace answered his eager look of inquiry with a little nod.
“Your poor friend Mr. Hutchinson!” she said, glancing down at some figures before her. “I don’t understand much about tariffs, but look here. Austria, too, is to have a protectorate over—but see for yourself.”
Pryde glanced over her shoulder.
“Get on your hat quickly,” he begged. “Simmons is waiting downstairs to take us to Downing Street.”
MONSIEUR SENN was becoming dangerous. Three-quarters of the bottle of champagne which stood in a pail by their side had already disappeared. He leaned over the little pink-shaded table, discreetly chosen in a quiet corner of the restaurant. His eyes were very eloquent.
“Dear mademoiselle,” he murmured, “I have found in this dull city of yours something I never dreamed of, something I cannot bear to leave behind. To-morrow or the next day I go. Constantinople is a very beautiful city. Life there can be as agreeable and as gay, even, as Paris. Must I go back alone?”
She was sitting very upright in her chair, wearing a plain black dinner gown, from which emerged only a very little of her white neck and shoulders. She was, indeed, what he had already called her—piquant, ravissante.
“But, monsieur,” she replied, with a queer little gleam in her eyes, “how, indeed, can I make your travelling arrangements for you?”
“You laugh at me all the time,” he went on, “but in your heart, dear mademoiselle, you know—you must know. I have seen no one else like you. No longer shall you type dull letters in your gloomy room.”
“They aren’t all dull,” she assured him.
He waved his hand impatiently.
“Typewriters—they are for the others. It is for you to come out and see how beautiful life may be. It is for you—”
He stopped suddenly. The ardent expression seemed suspended in his face. He frowned slightly.
“There is your friend Mr. Pryde, with Hutchinson, only a few tables away,” he muttered.
She received the information with indifference.
“Mr. Pryde is often here,” she remarked carelessly.
For the first time a vague shadow of uneasiness crept into his face. He had accepted this young woman so entirely for what she seemed to be. Yet, blinded though he had been, it was impossible to escape from a certain feeling of anxiety. If she had understood only a word or two and let it fall before Pryde! It was an awkward moment. Grace went quietly on with her dinner, but she knew quite well what was in his mind. It was at this precise juncture that Feldemay appeared. He entered hurriedly, still wearing his travelling coat and carrying his hat in his hand. A maître d’hôtel brought him to the table. Senn rose to meet him.
“My friend,” he exclaimed in that tongue, “speak in German!”
Feldemay nodded.
“I am from Vienna,” he said quickly. “All is agreed. If necessary, mobilization will commence next week. And you?”
“Success!” Monsieur Senn declared with satisfaction. “Everything was cabled to Constantinople twenty-eight hours ago. I wait every instant for the last confirmation. A glass of wine, my friend!”
Feldemay gave up his hat and coat. He glanced towards Grace and shook his head.
“The eternal weakness, my friend!” he murmured.
Monsieur Senn smiled. It was at this precise moment that a boy from the office put a telegram into his hand. He tore it open. Feldemay leaned over his shoulder. The faces of the two became a strange and marvellous study. The cheeks of Monsieur Senn were ashen pale. Feldemay, on the other hand, seemed on the verge of an apoplectic fit. He laid his thick forefinger upon the telegram:
“RUSSIAN AND BRITISH AMBASSADORS ALREADY ACQUAINTED PROPOSED ARRANGEMENT. HAVE LEFT FORMAL PROTESTS IN NATURE OF ULTIMATUM. RATIFICATION IMPOSSIBLE. NEGOTIATIONS USELESS. RETURN AT ONCE.”
Pryde, from his seat a little distance away, saw the storm breaking. He came quietly over and stood by Grace’s side. Feldemay recognized him and took a quick step backwards.
“You again!” he muttered.
“Once more, my friend Feldemay,” Pryde replied quietly. “You drove me out from the service of my country some years ago. To-day you may perhaps wish that you had left me in it.”
Monsieur Senn turned almost piteously to Grace.
“And the young lady?” he exclaimed.
“The young lady,” Pryde answered, “is my partner—my partner for—”
“For this occasion only,” she interrupted hastily.
Monsieur Senn rose abruptly to his feet. He was still very white, but he retained his self-possession.
“Mademoiselle will excuse me,” he murmured, turning away.
Pryde seated himself in the vacant place. He drew a little sigh of relief.
“Coffee and liqueurs for three,” he ordered.</story>