<story title="THE SILENT PEOPLE" date="1914">
ON the first Sunday in May, there occurred in the heart of London a tragedy simple enough in itself, yet with a strange and sinister meaning for those who cared to study life a little way beneath its exterior crust. Amongst the well-dressed crowd of London’s fashionable people swarming the park between midday and one o’clock on Sunday, a woman, whose rags were only partially concealed by a rusty black shawl, was seen suddenly to reel and fall. She was picked up dead. Upon the bosom of her threadbare gown were pinned a few words of writing, which afforded to the smug Press of the country an opportunity for many rhetorical flourishes during the next few days. They led, too, to other and more serious things, for there were those who accepted them as a message. These were the words:
“I am thirty years old. I am going to die. I am tired out. There is no hope in this world for the poor. I have done my best. I have a husband and four children. My husband earns twenty-one shillings a week. I cannot feed him, myself, and four children on twenty-one shillings a week. I have tried. My children are thin and hungry. My husband never smiles. He, too, is losing his strength. I myself am the withered remnant of a woman. I have no hope. I know that there is a life, but, for some reason, I am not asked to share in it. This morning, for once, I go to see the sunshine. I go to see the other women. Perhaps I shall understand what it is they have done and I have not done to deserve life. And then I shall rest.”
When the papers had finished with their vapourings, and a satisfactory fund had been raised for the children of the dead woman, things began to happen. A millionaire employer of labour, who had closed his yards and turned seventeen hundred people into the streets because one of the commodities used by him had reached a price which he declared made his business unprofitable, was shot dead as he crossed the pavement from his house in Park Lane to step into his motor-car. His murderer turned out to be one of his unemployed workpeople, who defended himself from the dock with a rough eloquence which paralysed even the law. Within a few days other events happened which pointed to some systematic effort. Four factories in different parts of the country, whose owners were deservedly unpopular, were destroyed either by dynamite or fire. A trade union official, who was reported to have accepted a bribe from a federation of employers to prohibit a strike, even though he was in possession of large funds subscribed by the workpeople, was missed for several days and discovered with a cord around his neck in the Thames. Then a leading daily paper published a mysterious document which had been dropped into its letter-box by an unknown hand. It was headed:
“A Warning to the Men and Women of England!
“There are millions who have been waiting for a sign. Eleven days ago a woman died in the Park, and the message found pinned to the rags which covered her withered body has been accepted as that sign. England is governed by laws, laws ill-made by man for his kind. The old laws are hard to break; the new laws are difficult to frame. From our place amongst the wilderness, we who send this message have spent many weary hours pondering over the great subject—how and in what fashion shall we make heard the voice of the sufferers? A short time ago hundreds of women, nourished in comfortable homes, educated, civilized, apparently respectable, called attention to a grievance from which they imagined themselves to be suffering by great and wanton destruction of property. Their grievance is to ours as the light of a candle to the burning of the sun. There are those who have approved their methods. They have taught us a lesson. Cause and effect shall be dissociated in our minds. Until you listen to us we will kill, burn and destroy. When the moment has come, we will point to you the way to freedom.
“To-morrow the King drives through the City to the Mansion House. The King to-morrow will be safe. But between Ludgate Circus and St. Paul’s Cathedral one of the horses drawing his coach will be destroyed.
“The Silent People.”
This document was scoffed at by nearly everyone who read it. Even the editor of the paper was derided for publishing an anonymous hoax. That morning, however, half-way up Ludgate Hill, a spectator was seen to break through the little line and, taking a deliberate aim, to shoot one of the horses of the King’s coach through the head. He was at once arrested—in fact, he made no effort to escape. He made no reply to the charge and remained absolutely dumb, both at the time and subsequently. He was committed to prison during the King’s pleasure, a fate to which he submitted with the utmost indifference. On the following day the letter-box of the Daily Observer was watched by the cleverest detectives in London. The sub-editor, however, discovered in the morning another communication amongst the rest of his correspondence. This communication was headed in the same way:
“To the Men and Women of England!
“We have a thousand men like William Clarke, ready to do our bidding; ready to kill, burn or destroy, as we choose. We are tired of our Labour members and our magazine-writing Socialists. The people speak now for themselves. We adopt the tactics of a more educated class.
“On Thursday one of the masterpieces in the National Gallery will be destroyed.
“The Silent People.”
This time, short of closing the National Gallery, every possible precaution was taken, but about three o’clock in the afternoon the “Madonna” of Giotto was discovered cut into strips. The perpetrator of the deed was easily arrested. His name was Johnson. He was a weaver by trade, out of work, and poorly dressed. He made no reply to the charge, no reply in the police court, and, refusing to answer the simplest questions, he was committed to prison indefinitely.
On the third day another communication was received and published in the Daily Observer:
“We of the people have been accused always of ranting, of shouting our wrongs from the house-tops. Let us hope that our new tactics will be approved. We have left off words. We have come to deeds, and those who do our bidding have learnt silence. To-morrow there will be wrecked the house of one whose name is held by us as the name of an enemy.
“The Silent People.”
Throughout London a certain thrill of anticipation seemed to quiver in the air from hour to hour. Who was there who could be called an enemy of the people?
In great black headlines the evening papers told the story. In a suburb of London, the house of a member of the Government who had risen from the ranks, and to whom such measures for the relief of the poor which a temporising Government had devised had been entrusted during the last few years, was completely wrecked. The man himself had escaped, but his house was in ruins. He stood branded as an enemy of the people. On this occasion the thrower of the bomb remained undiscovered. The house was one of those which had been left unwatched.
It was about this time that Pryde made a thrilling and amazing discovery, which at first threatened seriously to alter his relations with his partner. He arrived home unexpectedly early one night to find a note asking him to call in and report. He found the door of her flat unfastened, and the door of the inner room wide open. Hearing a step, she called out:
“Please come here at once.”
After a moment’s hesitation he obeyed. He advanced even to the inner room, and for the first time saw inside. He stood quite still, transfixed with surprise. Every detail of her sitting-room was always rigidly reminiscent of Grace herself. Even the easy chairs were a little severe, and the furniture, which she had added from time to time, was of a sombre and decorous type. Her colour scheme was grey; the pictures which hung upon the walls were nearly all landscapes; her whole environment always seemed so thoroughly in keeping with her clothes, her manner of speech itself, of prim, almost Quakerish simplicity. He had pictured her own room as something like this: a simple bedstead, a few prints, an apartment clean and bare and chaste. He looked instead into a chamber utterly unlike anything he could have imagined. The walls were coloured a faint rose pink, and on the floor there was a carpet of almost the same colour. The bedstead was of white, with a top of hooded muslin tied up with ribbons. There was an easy chair and a large divan, chintz covered, luxurious; a dressing-table covered with dainty trifles; and on the bed, by the side of an empty basket, a little heap of garments which seemed to him like a sea of lace and muslin. Everything was spotless, exquisitely dainty. It might well have been the sleeping apartment of a princess.
Pryde stood rooted to the spot. His final shock of amazement came when he realised that Grace herself was wearing a dressing-gown of white muslin, that she seemed like a bewildering vision of fluffiness and laces and ribbons. He was absolutely incapable of any form of speech. He simply stood and stared whilst her face grew darker.
“How dare you!” she exclaimed, advancing rapidly towards the door.
“You called me,” he declared. “I got your note and hurried down. When I came inside you called me.”
“I thought it was Susan, you idiot!” she retorted, slamming the door in his face.
He walked slowly away. The maid whom Grace had recently engaged for several hours a day entered hurriedly, almost at the same moment, from the outside door. She smiled at Pryde as she passed.
“I am afraid that Miss Burton will think I have been gone a long time, sir,” she remarked. “I could not find the shop.”
She disappeared, closing the door silently behind her.
Pryde threw himself into an easy chair. So there was another Grace, after all, a Grace who loved the things a woman should love, a Grace who was as dainty and sweet as anything he could have conceived in his most sentimental moments. He felt his heart beating with the pleasure of it. Her life, then, was to some extent a pose. At heart she was like other girls. He sat with half-closed eyes, dwelling upon those few seconds, seconds full of exquisite imaginings. It seemed to him that he had never in his life looked upon anything more beautiful than that little chamber and its contents. Even Grace, when she at last appeared, could not dispel his dreams. She was dressed as usual in severe black, unrelieved even at the neck. A vision he seemed to have had of silk stockings was dissipated by the sight of her square-toed shoes. She came towards him in an absolutely matter-of-fact way. He rose, a little embarrassed.
“If I was rude just now,” she said calmly, “I am sorry. The fault, I suppose, was mine.”
“I certainly,” he explained, “would not have dreamed of—”
“That will do,” she interrupted. “We will not discuss that subject again, ever. I hope you will humour me so far as to forget the occurrence. I sent for you because I wanted to talk.”
He nodded.
“It is three weeks since we did anything.”
“I have nothing definite to propose now,” she went on. “I wanted to speak about the Silent People.”
“There is a reward of a thousand pounds offered this morning,” Pryde remarked.
“They are doing all they can to break the thing up,” she said. “People are getting uneasy. The question is whether, supposing we were successful where others have failed, we could take that thousand pounds reward with a clear conscience.”
“What do you mean?” he asked.
“I mean that I am not at all sure,” she continued, “that my sympathies are not with the Silent People.”
Pryde, whose habits of mind were conventional even though his views were broad, shook his head.
“One may see weak points in our laws, in our whole social system,” he observed, “but the attacks made upon it must be legitimate. I say that it is the duty of everyone to uphold the law.”
“Yours,” she replied, “is the point of view of the man in the street. I will not tell you exactly what I think. Only this: if you join with me in a certain scheme which I am about to propose, it must be on this one condition only, that in the event of success, the claiming of that reward—that is to say, the denouncing of these people—must rest with me.”
“I do not mind that,” he assented.
“You understand,” she repeated. “Even if we are successful, supposing we find out who it is who writes these notices and who has planned these outrages, if I decide that the knowledge is to be forgotten, it must be so.”
“I agree,” he said. “I think that your instinct will be too strong for your humanitarianism.”
“We shall see,” she rejoined. “There are a good many threads hanging loose, a good many which have been tried already and thrown on one side. Now tell me, you have done what I asked you this afternoon?”
He nodded.
“I was at the House of Commons at four o’clock. I heard Cammerley bring in his Bill.”
“What did you think of him?”
Pryde hesitated.
“At first,” he said thoughtfully, “I was disappointed. Then he began to impress me. He is rather a curious personality. Nothing about him suggests in any way a leader of the people. He has a thin frame, he stoops, and he wears gold-rimmed spectacles. He spoke almost without gestures, and his voice at times was quite low. It was not until he had been speaking for some time that one realised that he was, after all, in his way an orator. He had no notes, he spoke with perfect assurance, and he said some startling things. But he didn’t attempt to make the points that these Labour men nearly always do. There wasn’t a touch of rhetoric in anything he said. He simply spoke of the coming of the people as though it were written.”
“He believes that,” she murmured.
“On the whole,” Pryde concluded, “I should put him down as a dangerous man.”
“Why dangerous?”
“He is a revolutionary. One could almost imagine him a Robespierre.”
“Even that,” she remarked, “may come.”
“And now,” he asked, “tell me exactly why you wanted me to hear him? You had some reason?”
“I had,” she admitted. “I think that if you could see inside his brain you wouldn’t have much trouble in earning that thousand pounds.”
“He is one of the Silent People?” Pryde exclaimed.
Grace did not speak for a moment.
“You know,” she said presently, “that I am a member of the Forward Club?”
“You told me so the other night,” he replied. “I remember how surprised I was.”
“There is nothing for you to be surprised at,” she continued calmly. “Anyhow, I was there the other afternoon. Cammerley was having tea with a woman at the next table. They were talking together earnestly. You know how acute my hearing is. I overheard a single sentence. It was enough.”
Pryde was obviously interested.
“If Cammerley is really mixed up with these people,” he said, “it would cause a sensation if it were known. He has been getting quite a little following of his own lately. The other side have rather taken him up.”
“Why not? He is a strong man. In a few years’ time, unless accidents happen, the country will have to reckon with him.”
“Accidents?”
“I mean, if he does not come to grief,” she explained. “It is his pose at present to be a moderate man. They say that at heart he is a red-hot anarchist, ready to sacrifice the country, the lives of millions, if necessary, to his principles. That is why I wonder whether we should not be doing good rather than harm if we were to take that thousand pounds.”
“You will have to get your proofs first,” he reminded her.
“We might fail,” she admitted; “on the other hand, we might succeed. What I cannot make up my mind about is whether we might not do more harm by succeeding.”
“But you are not a Socialist yourself!”
“I am not so sure about that,” she answered.
He shrugged his shoulders. It was certainly not the place or the time for arguments.
“In any case,” he begged, “tell me just what you have in your mind?”
“You are still in touch with the Daily Observer people,” she said. “Well, go and interview Mr. Cammerley on their behalf. Talk to him in his own house. See if anything occurs to you.”
“No hints?”
“None. I am not keeping anything from you. I simply heard a sentence pass between him and a woman whom I knew very well by repute. Go and see what you think of him.”
Pryde glanced at the clock.
“I’ll go to-morrow,” he promised, “but in the meantime—”
“I am going to dine at my club to-night,” she interrupted, a little ruthlessly. “I shall be leaving in a few minutes.”
“You wouldn’t like to take me with you, I suppose?” he suggested.
“I should dislike it very much indeed,” she replied. “I don’t see the slightest reason why I should pay for your dinner.”
“It’s only eighteenpence,” he ventured hopefully.
“The amount is not so serious, perhaps,” she admitted. “It is the principle. Besides, I want to make a few inquiries there about Mr. Cammerley’s friends. I shall be better alone.”
“Grace,” he began, suddenly inspired by a recollection of that little room.
Her eyes flashed a warning.
“I consider the use of my Christian name a liberty, Mr. Pryde!”
He turned on his heel and went out. It was not until he had left the room that her lips relaxed in the least. Then she smiled.</story>