<story title="THE TRAGEDY AT CHARLECOT MANSIONS" date="1913">
PRYDE, with an effort, kept away from Grace’s rooms for the rest of the day. He dined at his club, spent a wasted hour at a music-hall, where he bored himself to death, and finally returned to his rooms soon after eleven. He was reading, about half an hour later, when the telephone bell at his elbow rang. He caught up the receiver eagerly. His first surmise had been correct. It was Grace who spoke.
“Is that Mr. Pryde?”
“It is,” he replied. “Good evening, Miss Burton.”
“If you have not retired,” she continued, “will you step down here for a moment?”
“With pleasure,” he answered promptly.
He hastened downstairs. Grace had been sitting in an easy chair by the window, but she rose to receive him. She had an opened letter in her hand; her face was very white and cold.
“Mr. Pryde,” she said, “or Sir Stephen, I want to ask you a question.”
“You can ask me as many as you like,” he declared. “What is it?”
She handed him the letter and a cheque. “Do you know anything about that?”
He read the letter word for word and glanced at the cheque. “What should I know about it?” he asked.
Grace half closed her eyes for a moment. “Please don’t evade the point,” she begged. “You see what Stella says—she has had a great deal of money arrive unexpectedly. I don’t believe it can have come from her husband. It tortures me to say this, but I don’t see how it is possible. It came from someone! I saw you both at Prince’s—to-day—as I passed. Tell me, did it come from you?”
So his little scheme was to fail! He was found out already! “It did,” he admitted.
Grace gripped for a moment at the table. “You!” she murmured. “You and Stella!”
“You are angry with me, of course,” he said slowly, “yet I don’t think you ought to be. I have observation, you know. I have seen your little room stripped of everything that was worth having. I see you here, working till your fingers must nearly drop off. You wear shabby clothes, you have taken no holiday. And all this money has gone to be spent by Stella in idle luxuries; all this money has gone in the one wild, fervid hope of keeping her true to her husband. Very well. If money and an easy life can keep her as you would have her be, she shall be kept in the right way without your breaking your life about it. I lunched with your sister to-day. I told her a few words of truth. She was at least sensible.”
“She took your money!” Grace faltered. “I saw her step into your car with you.”
He looked a little puzzled. “I went with her to get a list of her debts and the money she had had from you,” he explained. “Then I wrote her a cheque. You can be as angry with me as you like. I did it because I cannot bear to see you as you are. Oh! Grace,” he wound up, “can’t you see that if it was clumsy and impertinent of me, I still did it because I love you, and because I can’t bear to see you denying yourself everything in life worth having for the sake of a poor frivolous creature like Stella Forde.”
Grace sank slowly back in her chair. She leaned her arms upon the table; her face for a moment disappeared. “Forgive me,” she whispered. “I had a strange idea, and it was like poison. I want to get rid of it. Don’t talk. Leave me alone, please.”
He stood before her, his heart aching. She seemed so frail and pitiful. Her light brown hair was beautifully brushed and neatly arranged, her linen collar was clean though frayed, her gown was rusty, and she wore not a single ornament. Her shoulders were shaking. Poor little woman!
There came at that moment an altogether unexpected interruption—the telephone bell began to ring. Grace raised her head and stared at the instrument. Pryde did the same. As though by common consent, they both glanced at the clock. It was just midnight.
“Who can it be?” she exclaimed. “I know no one who would ring me up at this time of night.” She caught hold of the receiver and raised it to her ear. “Who is it?”
The voice which reached her was half faint, half choked, more than a little incoherent. “Grace! Grace! Come to me—come to me at once! Bring someone. I am terrified to death! Come to me, please. Something has happened!”
“What is it?” Grace demanded. “Yes, yes, I’ll come at once; but what is it?”
“I can’t tell you,” the voice replied. “It is too terrible. Hurry!”
Grace laid down the receiver and rose quickly to her feet. “It is Stella,” she said. “Something has happened in her flat. I am going round. Will you come too?”
“Of course!”
“Go downstairs and get a taxi,” she directed.
“I shall be there in a moment.”
They arrived at their destination in less than ten minutes. The hall-porter took them up in the lift to the sixth floor, and Grace led the way across the landing. Almost immediately her finger had touched the bell the door was opened by Stella’s maid. The girl was still wearing her outdoor clothes; her cheeks were as white as chalk. She pointed across the hall to the door of the sitting-room. She seemed about to speak when it was suddenly opened and Stella appeared. She, too, was still in the clothes which she had worn home from the theatre. She, too, had the appearance of a woman beside herself with fear.
“Come in quickly!” she cried. “Shut the door, Esther.”
They passed into the sitting-room. A young man was leaning against the mantelpiece, his head buried in his arms. In the middle of the room a man was lying on his back, with his arms outstretched. His glassy eyes were upturned towards the ceiling. In the middle of his shirt-front was something thin and quivering, a little line of silver. Upon the table close to where he lay was an open telegram. The young man by the mantelpiece turned slowly around. He was as pale as the two women, and in his eyes was the fear of the coward. Pryde recognised him at once—a young man about town whom he knew slightly.
“What has happened, Dusanoy?” he demanded. “Quick!”
The young man trembled from head to foot. “I—don’t know,” he faltered.
“Don’t talk nonsense!” Pryde answered. “If anyone wants help here, we must have the truth, and quickly. Who is this?”
“I don’t know,” the young man repeated.
Pryde fell on his knees for a moment by the side of the prostrate figure. He rose again almost at once; there was no mistaking the look on that face. He turned to Stella, who stood clutching at the back of a chair.
“Who is this, Miss Forde?” he asked.
She opened her lips twice without uttering the slightest sound. When at last she spoke, it was in a sort of hysterical shriek. “I don’t know!” she sobbed.
Grace, who for a moment had been herself almost overcome, forced her sister into a chair. “Stella,” she said firmly, “don’t be absurd. Something terrible has happened. Tell us quickly what you can about it. It is the only way to help—can’t you see that?”
Stella pointed to the table. “Read that telegram,” she faltered.
Pryde moved quickly across. He read it out to Grace:
“SOUTHAMPTON. 10 O’CLOCK. JUST ARRIVED. STARTING FOR TOWN IMMEDIATELY IN MOTOR-CAR. SPLENDID NEWS. SHALL COME STRAIGHT TO CHARLECOT MANSIONS. LOVE. HARRY.”
Pryde put the telegram down. Stella pulled herself up a little in her chair.
“Listen,” she said. “Eddy Dusanoy brought me home. We were going on to the Artists’ Ball. Esther was with us. When we got here and turned the light on, we saw that,” she went on with a little gulp, pointing toward the prostrate figure.
“There was no one else here?” Grace inquired.
“No!”
“No sign of anyone having been here?”
“No!”
“Where was the telegram?”
“On the table.”
“Opened or unopened?”
“Unopened.”
Grace glanced at the clock. “How long have you been here?” she inquired.
“About twenty minutes,” Stella replied. “I telephoned to you at once.”
Dusanoy suddenly burst into a little cry. He had turned round and was facing the figure upon the floor. “They’ll say I did it!” he gasped. “They were ragging me last night—said I was jealous of Stella.”
“Do you know who he is?” Pryde asked.
“It’s Bartlett, the new tenor,” Stella replied.
Pryde stooped and picked up the latchkey from the floor. “There was no one in the flat when he came,” he remarked. “He must have used this key. Show me yours, Miss Forde.”
Pryde compared the two. There was a slight difference in the shape.
“Walter Bartlett has never uttered a serious word to me in his life,” Stella moaned. “I had no idea whatever of his coming here.”
Pryde glanced once more at the clock. Then he drew Grace a little on one side. “Of course, the same thing has occurred to both of us,” he said. “Your brother-in-law has had time to reach London. He may have come up here and found this man waiting. What sort of a temperament has Laverington?”
“He is very passionate,” Grace admitted fearfully. “He is horribly jealous, too!”
“Your sister can’t be telling the whole truth,” Pride decided. “She knows Bartlett. He is here in her rooms, dead. He must have come here to wait for her.”
Stella rose to her feet. She stood there with her hands above her head. “If he did,” she cried, “I swear upon my soul that it is without my knowledge! I swear that no word of love-making or even flirtation has ever passed between us! Can’t someone do something—can’t something be done? Harry may come in at any moment, if—if—he hasn’t been—”
Her voice died away in a horrified whisper. She was white to the lips.
“That isn’t Harry’s work,” Grace declared calmly. “He might kill, but not in that fashion.”
“Who lives in the flat below?” Pryde asked suddenly.
“An elderly couple—a Mr. and Mrs. Anderson,” Stella answered.
“And above?”
“I don’t know,” Stella replied. “The flat above has only just been opened—yesterday, I think. They meant to keep it as an attic, but there has been such a run on the place that they have opened it up as a small flat.”
“Wait here for one moment, all of you,” Pryde directed. “Grace, don’t let them move.”
“I will see that they do not,” she promised.
Pryde passed out on to the landing and listened; there was no sound of anyone about. He looked at the lift-shaft. It went only as far as the floor upon which he was. Then he ran softly up the stairs until he came to the door of the flat immediately above the one which he had just left. Again he listened; there was still silence. Very softly he tried the key which he held in his hand. The door opened. He felt along the wall for the knobs of the electric lights and turned them on. He was in a tiny hall. Opposite him was a door corresponding with the door of Stella’s sitting-room. Again he listened; there was no sound. Very softly he opened it. The room was in darkness, but the moon was shining in through the wide-open windows. He looked swiftly around. It was a woman’s sitting-room. There was a great divan drawn up to the open windows. On the table were a tray and some supper laid for two, and a sheet of paper upon which a few words were written. He read them quickly:
“Shall not be back till one. Please wait. Netta.”
Again he listened; the place was empty. He left all the doors open and ran softly down. When he entered the room the four people whom he had left there seemed scarcely to have moved. They were like pictures in a tableau, except that Grace was holding her sister’s hand and trying to make her talk.
“Listen, all of you,” Pryde said. “If you two have told the truth, I have a theory. Until yesterday this was the topmost flat. The room above has been known only as an attic. There is a sitting-room there, empty; a supper waiting for two; a note on the table in a woman’s handwriting, saying that she will be back at one. Wait. There is only one thing to be done. I propose,” he added, turning to Grace, “that we accept your sister’s story. If she and Dusanoy have spoken the truth, this tragedy does not belong here. It may belong upstairs. Let us take it there.”
They all looked at him as though failing to understand.
“It is a risk, of course,” Pryde went on coolly, “but we do no good here. If he is found in this room—”
“He can’t be found here!” Stella shrieked. “He can’t!”
Pryde glanced at the clock. “Come,” he ordered. “Dusanoy, be a man for a moment, if you can. I’ll take the shoulders, you take the feet. Esther, you must help.”
The procession started—a weird and horrible one. Step by step they mounted the stairs, passed in through the doors which Pryde had left open, laid their burden down by the side of the table. Then they turned and hurried out, closing the doors behind them.
“We’ve either saved your sister,” Pryde said softly to Grace, “or we’ve got ourselves into thundering trouble. Very soon we shall know. I am going to open the outside door. I want to hear the lift come up.”
He had scarcely done so when he called to Stella. He stood upon the threshold. The lift was coming creeping up.
“Stand here and talk to me as though I were an ordinary caller,” he directed. “Mind, we are running risks to help you. Be a woman for a minute. I want to see who this is.”
She did her best. Pryde covered her as much as possible. He held her hand in his. Then the lift stopped and out tripped a little dark-haired girl, singing softly to herself. She waved her hand to Stella.
“Hallo, Stella!” she cried. “You didn’t know I was a neighbour, did you? I’ve got a loft above you. Come up and see me sometimes.”
Stella murmured something. The little woman went singing up the stairs. They all drew closer together, listening. They heard her open the door, they heard it close behind her, they heard her shriek. By that time their senses seemed dulled to horrors. It was simply a signal for which they had been waiting. Pryde and Grace rushed up. The little girl was on her knees beside the prostrate figure. She held an open letter in her hand.
“He’s killed him! He’s killed him!” she moaned. “Walter!” She turned round as they entered. “Send for the police, please,” she begged. “Something has happened here—something terrible!”
“Who is that?” Pryde demanded, pointing to the figure by her side.
“It is Walter Bartlett,” she faltered. “That beast Jerome has killed him! He always swore that he would. See, I have his letter. Send for the police, please.”
“I will telephone at once,” Grace promised. “Let me stay with you.”
She shook her head. “Come up again soon,” she implored, “not now. Leave me alone for a few minutes.”
They descended the stairs and entered the little sitting-room below. Even Grace was shaking. Pryde was dazed.
“The tragedy belonged there,” he announced softly. “Who is she?”
“It’s little Netta Fawsitt,” Stella replied. “She’s in my company. Walter Bartlett was mad about her, and so was that great brute Jerome.”
Dusanoy helped himself to a whisky. “Thank God we’re out of it!” he said.
“You had better go home,” Pryde ordered; “go home and forget everything. Mind that you do forget.”
The young man caught up his hat and coat and almost staggered to the door. They heard it slam behind him, they heard his retreating footsteps on the stairs. Stella began to sob in Grace’s arms.
“Grace! Grace! I swear that I’ll never be the least bit foolish again—never! If Harry would only come and take me away! I’m sick of the stage—I’m sick of the whole life.”
Pryde was busy telephoning to a police station. Then there was a clamorous knocking at the door. Stella herself ran to open it. There was the sound of muffled voices. In a moment or two she reappeared, carried in the arms of a tall man. He held out both his hands to Grace.
“So you’ve taken care of her for me, dear!” he exclaimed heartily. “I couldn’t keep away a second longer. I’ve had all the luck in the world, made pots of money, and I’ve come home for Stella.”
Grace shook hands with him warmly.
“I am so glad you’ve come, Harry,” she said.
An hour afterwards Pryde and Grace found themselves on their homeward way. Pryde knew that for once in her life Grace was overwrought, and he said scarcely a word until they reached their destination. He opened her door for her, turned up the light, and put her in an easy chair. She leaned back with a little sigh of relief.
“Miss Burton—Grace,” he said quietly, “I am going to leave you now. If you need me for anything, the telephone will be by my side. To-night has been horrible, but remember that the tragedy which happened is outside our lives, and that all is well with Stella now. Good night!”
“Good night!” she whispered very softly.</story>