<story title="THE SPIDER’S PARLOUR" date="1914">
PRYDE missed the sound of the typewriter as he entered her room, but, to his immense relief, Grace was there. She was sitting back in her easy chair, her eyes were half closed, she seemed pale and tired. The windows were wide open, but the air of the little room was stifling.
“Grace!” he exclaimed; “I beg your pardon, Miss Burton—you see, I am back again.”
She seemed suddenly to pull herself together. The lines were still under her eyes, but she held herself upright and she spoke briskly.
“So I observe,” she remarked. “I am sorry—”
She hesitated, looking at his dark clothes and black tie. He drew a chair near her.
“I am not going to try and be a hypocrite,” he said. “It was an uncle whom I have only seen half a dozen times in my life, and he has left me a little money. He was eighty-one years old. Why on earth should I be sorry?”
“No reason at all that I can see,” she admitted, smiling. “I suppose you have come to tell me, then, that our partnership is at an end?”
“On the contrary,” he answered swiftly, “I have come to beg for a new one.”
She was conscious almost as soon as she had spoken of the opportunity which her words had given him. She shrank a little away, but he caught at her hands and held them boldly.
“Grace,” he said, “you’ve known all the time, of course. You’re horrid to me, and I haven’t cared to say much before because, after all, I had only what I could earn with you and through you. I’ve a reserve fund to fall back upon now. Will you marry me, please, dear?”
She drew her hands firmly away.
“Most certainly and decidedly not,” she declared.
Pryde sighed.
“It sounds a little uncompromising,” he remarked.
“It is exactly how I feel,” she assured him. “I have not the slightest desire to marry you or anyone. What I’ve seen of married life,” she went on, a little sadly, “has been quite enough to prevent my ever thinking about it for myself as long as I live.”
“But surely,” he pleaded, “you do not allow yourself to be influenced by one or even two unfortunate marriages?”
She shook her head.
“I cannot discuss it,” she said. “Fortunately for me, I am one of those people who are able to take care of themselves, who can live alone and not feel the want of anyone’s society. You see, I am not at all the sort of girl men like. I am a little hard, a little bitter. There have been things in my life which have made me so. The world is full of girls, Mr. Pryde, who would make you excellent wives, and who are only waiting for the opportunity. Please put away all such thoughts in connection with me.”
He sat in silence for a few moments.
“I wonder,” he remarked, “if there is really anything in your life which accounts for your unnatural attitude towards matrimony?”
She sighed.
“Some day,” she answered, “I may tell you; certainly not at present. Now, please, get all these foolish ideas out of your head. There is some business to talk about.”
“I will talk business in five minutes,” Pryde said. “Before I do so, I insist upon knowing what has happened in this room.”
He looked around him wonderingly. Grace sat quite still, but her lips were quivering.
“I have got rid of a few articles of furniture which I did not require,” she declared. “Nothing else has happened to it that I know of.”
“Your little water-colours have gone,” he pointed out, “your two bronzes, all the china from your cabinet, all the silver from that little whatnot. Were you thinking of moving, or—”
“Or what?”
“Have you sold them?”
“I do not consider, Mr. Pryde,” she said, “that this matter concerns you at all.”
“We are partners,” he objected.
“We are partners inasmuch as we divide the profits of certain of our undertakings,” she replied.
“We have done that, and there is an end of it.”
“If we are partners in good fortune,” he insisted doggedly, “we are also partners in ill-fortune.”
“I am not prepared to grant anything of the sort,” she said. “Since you are so ill-bred as to be inquisitive, I will admit that I have sold some of my things. I had a pressing claim, and I had to satisfy it.”
“But why on earth couldn’t you telegraph me?” he exclaimed. “You knew where I was.”
“Why on earth should I?” she replied.
“You know very well that what I have—”
“What you have has nothing to do with me,” Grace declared firmly. “I have a burden to carry through life and I mean to carry it myself. What it is I have no idea of telling you—at any rate, for the present. If you find out, it will be against my will. Sometimes it keeps me poor. At other times it is no trouble at all. Whatever it is, it is my affair and mine alone. Now, will you please sit quite still? I want to talk to you about something else.”
Pryde kept silent with an effort.
“Very well,” he muttered. “For the present, then—only for the present. You can go on.”
“I suppose,” Grace began, “I have been wasting my time the whole of the fortnight you have been away. I couldn’t help it. I am going to make a confession. That downstairs room in the Café Suprême has fascinated me. I haven’t been able to keep away from it. I think what makes it the more attractive really is that they hate the sight of me there.”
“The place has been thoroughly searched, hasn’t it?” he interposed.
“From cellar to attic. Directly the manager was spoken to, and it was hinted to him that suspicions had been aroused concerning the restaurant, he placed all his keys at the disposal of Mr. Simmons, and he insisted upon their searching every room and cross-questioning whomever they chose. Not a single suspicious circumstance came to light, not a single thing to connect the place with Paul of Delacher’s Hotel, or with any other person. Mr. Simmons himself told me that he was sure there had been some mistake. I told him about Fritz, the man whose dead body was found in the Thames. I told him how genuinely terrified he was when he heard that we had lunched there. Mr. Simmons only shook his head. You know how obstinate he is. He had made up his mind. Very well, I said no more. But since then the Café Lugano has seen little of me. I have lunched in that gloomy room downstairs nearly every day. Sometimes I have dined there as well. They keep on charging me more and more. They bring me indifferent things to eat. They keep me waiting an unconscionable time. I say to myself, ‘Never again will I set foot inside this place,’ and in a few hours I am back again.”
“This isn’t like you,” he remarked wonderingly.
“Not a bit,” she admitted. “I have never believed in presentiments. I haven’t cared about anything but direct methods. Yet I am going to tell you something. I know perfectly well that there are many things connected with the Café Suprême which have never been discovered. Do you know what I call it myself?—the Spider’s Parlour! There are things go on there which no one has any idea of.”
“But in what part of the place?” he asked.
“I don’t know,” she answered; “only I feel quite sure that there is something mysterious about that half-underground room, with just those few tables and the three musicians. They are turning people away all the time upstairs. It would be perfectly easy to add fifty more tables downstairs, instead of which they keep it empty. The few people who are there seem either to have drifted in by accident, or to have some special interest in the place. However, there is something more to tell you.”
She glanced at the clock, which was just striking four.
“To-day,” she said, “as I came out, I stopped to give something to the musicians. The man who plays the piano was the only one there. The other two had turned away for a minute. I wonder whether you remember him? He was a strange, dark-looking creature, with queer eyes.”
Pryde nodded.
“I remember him perfectly.”
“He seemed to have a sudden idea when I spoke to him,” she went on. “There was no one within hearing. He asked me in an undertone for my address.”
“The infernal cheek—” Pryde began.
Grace shook her head.
“Don’t be absurd,” she said quietly. “He did not ask in that sort of way. The only other two words he said were ‘Four o’clock.’ Now suppose you go to the door and open it.”
There was a sound of knocking outside. Pryde obeyed. It was indeed the musician who stood there. He wore a long black overcoat, notwithstanding the heat of the day, and he carried a soft black hat in his hand. He stared at Pryde with one eye, and blinked rapidly with the other.
“She is here,” Pryde replied. “Come in.”
The man came into the room. Grace rose to her feet.
“This gentleman,” she said, pointing to Pryde, “is a friend of mine. You need not hesitate to speak before him. What is it that you wish to say?”
The man laid his hat upon the table.
“Young lady,” he began. “I do not quite know why I spoke to you. I was beside myself this morning. They have dismissed me, those people at that rat-hole. I sat there thinking when you passed. You too, have been in that place often, and I wondered, as the others wonder, for what purpose. I said to myself that we would speak with one another. Who can tell what may come of it?”
“I have nothing whatever to conceal,” Grace told him. “I have been so often into that wretched little room at the Café Suprême because the place seems to me so mysterious, and because I am interested in unravelling queer things and visiting strange places. I have always a fancy that there are secrets almost within reach of one’s hands there.”
The man leaned forward. He was English enough, and yet there was a strain of some foreign blood in him. His gestures were theatrical but natural.
“It is the truth!” he exclaimed. “There are things go on there which no one knows of. There are certain visitors who are brought with much ceremony to the little room downstairs, and on those nights we are sent away early. What happens—who knows? But that visitor never comes again. He is never seen again. You,” he went on, pointing to Pryde, “were brought down there one day and the young lady. Nothing happened. The young lady has been often since. Yet, believe me or not, as you choose, never do I remember anyone else escorted down those stairs by Jean whose face I have ever seen again!”
“But there are always a few customers there,” Grace objected.
“Dummies!” the musician declared. “They are creatures of the restaurant. There is barely a single genuine customer. Why should they come? The place is nearly empty. Only one or two tables are set there, it is cold and draughty, the service is slow. Mademoiselle is the only one from the outside world who has been there often, and I have seen them watch her—watch her from upstairs, watch her from the other places. Sometimes I have had it in my mind to speak to her.”
“Tell me,” Pryde asked, “you seem to have been suspicious of this place for some time. Have you discovered anything?”
“A trifle which may not be a trifle,” the musician answered. “It was only yesterday. There was a wine merchant who called. Jean complained bitterly of some wine. We could hear them upon the stairs. It was arranged that Jean should go into the cellars, and bring up several bottles at hazard. Jean passed us, went behind the bar, opened a trapdoor and stepped down. I saw him disappear with my own eyes. In a moment or two the wine merchant came down the stairs. He inquired for Monsieur Jean. I pointed to the open trapdoor. ‘Ah!’ he exclaimed, ‘he has gone to fetch the wine. I will help him.’ He hurried across the room and began to descend the steps. Presently he returned. ‘There is no one there,’ he declared. It was in the intervals of playing. I myself descended with him. The cellar was empty. We searched everywhere. Then we both ascended. While we spoke of this thing we heard footsteps. Jean appeared with the bottles. I turned away. I heard Jean explain that he had been behind one of the bins in the corner, but I know better. Jean was not in the cellar at all.”
“But surely it is not impossible,” Pryde interposed, “that there should be another way out of the cellar?”
“There is a way for letting cases down from the street,” the man replied, “but that is almost perpendicular, and Jean could not have been hidden there or gone out that way. I know a short time ago there came men who searched those cellars, searched them carefully, yard by yard. They found no other exit. It was for that they were looking. To-day I know that they were wrong. There is another exit. That is all I have to say.”
“I do not quite understand, after all,” Grace remarked, “why you have come to me. You have realized that I was interested in the restaurant, but is that all?”
The man took up his hat slowly.
“I know,” he declared, “that you are an enemy of the place. I have seen Jean’s face grow black when you have entered. I have heard orders given that you were to be served slowly and badly. I know that for some reason they are afraid of you there. Therefore, it seemed to me that, hating the place as you do, you were the person to whom I might bring the little information I have.”
Pryde put his hand in his pocket.
“If a trifling loan,” he suggested, “while you are out of work—”
“I shall accept it with pleasure, sir,” the man replied. “And if anything should come of this—”
He wrote down his address upon a piece of paper.
“There may be other questions,” he continued, “matters which have seemed to me unimportant.”
“There is just one thing I should like to ask you,” Grace said, as he turned to go. “Besides myself, there seems to be one habitué of the place from the general public—a little man with gold glasses who is always reading a paper. They treat him almost as rudely as they do me.”
The musician nodded.
“He is a doctor, miss,” he told her, “who has a surgery near. That is all I know. I have seen them look at him, also, as though they wished him somewhere else. He comes in, I think, because it is near his place. They serve him, too, badly, but he takes no notice. He reads always more than he eats. Good day, miss! Good day, sir!”
“Entirely as a matter of business,” Pryde proposed, as the door closed behind their visitor, “I suggest that we dine to-night at the Café Suprême.”
“It would, perhaps, be advisable,” Grace assented stiffly.</story>