<story title="THE SIMPLE LIFE IN BERMONDSEY" date="1913">
PRYDE was enjoying a game of golf one afternoon with Mr. Hutchinson, who was now one of his regular opponents, when a man-servant in plain clothes approached him, removed his hat, and handed him a note.
“I took this to your rooms first, Sir Stephen,” he said, “and then to the club. They told me that I might find you here.”
Pryde tore open the envelope. He was already familiar with the handwriting:
“My dear Pryde,—If you have the leisure and inclination, I can offer you a commission, one in which I dare say the services of Miss Burton also would be useful. If you are open to accept it, I must see you within the course of an hour or so. Do not lose a second in coming to me on receipt of this note.—Ever yours,
“James Downson.”
“Sir James sent his car down with me, sir,” the man announced. “He thought we might save a little time.”
Pryde turned to his opponent regretfully, but Mr. Hutchinson had already handed his driver to his caddy.
“Not a word of apology, Sir Stephen,” he begged. “I fancy I’ve escaped a licking. Nasty trick I seem to have this morning of pulling my putts. I shall play the last three holes alone and see if I can get out of it.”
Pryde was whirled up to London with such expedition as a six-cylinder car and an Italian chauffeur of venturesome disposition could command. Sir James was busy in his study with two secretaries, whom he instantly dismissed.
“I am glad Marvin found you,” he remarked in a tone of satisfaction. “Now sit down here and listen. First of all, are you free? Plenty of time and inclination, eh?”
“Plenty of both,” Pryde declared.
“And Miss Burton?”
“When I saw her yesterday she was praying that something would turn up,” Pryde replied a little gloomily. “She’s never happy unless she’s working.”
“Very well; now listen,” Sir James went on. “You may have read in the papers lately that a certain royal prince, the direct heir, failing one, to the throne of a great Continental country, was to be sent to Oxford to complete his education?”
Pryde nodded. “I think I saw it somewhere.”
“The notice appeared some eight months ago,” Sir James continued. “Since then there has been silence. As a matter of fact, the young prince in question arrived in this country within a few weeks of the publication of that notice, and went straight to Oxford. He was there for exactly two months.”
“What happened to him?”
“First of all, I must tell you that he is a young man of peculiar tastes,” Sir James explained. “He has been accustomed to think for himself, and he came over here imbued with some very broad ideas indeed. At Oxford he seems to have been fascinated by a little clique of advanced thinkers; I really don’t know what they call themselves—socialists, communists, anarchists—anything. Anyway, after a short time at Magdalen, the prince disappeared entirely. We lost sight of him altogether for almost a month.”
“Where is he now?”
“He is living now in a slum of London with one or two men whom he calls brothers, studying what he calls the new doctrines,” Sir James remarked. “He has let his hair grow, and he dresses like one of the people. He has given up his title, abandoned all luxuries, abjured his family and all their ways.”
“You have seen him, then?” Pryde inquired.
“I have,” Sir James admitted dryly. “I tried to reason with him—I tried everything, in fact, unsuccessfully. He is living in a sort of common house with a dozen or so others who call themselves students. There is a girl there, a sort of East-End Hypatia, who has him completely under her thumb. His father expects us to deport him. How the dickens can we? He is of age and living the life of a law-abiding citizen. We are really powerless in the matter. All the same, they are trying to make us responsible for the whole affair, and the situation is getting a little strained. We don’t want trouble with his country. What we want to do is to induce that young man to pack up and go home, or go anywhere, so long as he leaves London.”
“How can I get at him, I wonder?” Pryde asked thoughtfully.
“I can give you his address,” Sir James replied. “His great friend is Cammerley—The Socialist member.”
“The dickens!” Pryde said softly to himself. “And what about the girl?”
“Hedda Kleian.”
“A Jewess, isn’t she?”
Sir James nodded. “Makes it all the worse, of course,” he remarked. “It sounds like rather a dull sort of affair for you and Miss Burton, but I have a fancy that it might turn out just a shade more interesting than it appears on the surface.”
“We’ll take it on,” Pryde declared. “To tell the truth, there’s one stroke of luck about it. I’m going to sit next Hedda Kleian at dinner to-night.”
“At dinner?” Sir James repeated.
Pryde nodded. “She is going to be at the Wanderers’. I know because Honor, the secretary, showed me the plan of the tables yesterday, and asked me whom I’d like to sit next. I saw the girl act once, and she puzzled me. There was no one else there whom I knew particularly well, so I told him to put me next her.”
“Well, I wish you luck,” Sir James said, holding out his hand. “My regards to Miss Burton.”
Pryde made his way directly to Grace’s rooms. As he opened the door he heard the clicking of her typewriter, a sound which always irritated him intensely. She glanced up as he entered, and nodded.
“Thought you were playing golf?” she remarked.
“I was sent for in the middle of my match,” Pryde told her. “Sir James has a job for us.”
“Us?” she repeated.
He nodded. “Yes, you’re in it, or rather, you can be. You could have started with me to-night if it hadn’t been for your infernal obstinacy about never going out to dinner with me.”
“Please explain,” she begged.
Pryde repeated what Sir James had told him. Grace all the time made little pen-and-ink sketches on a piece of paper by her side.
“It sounds very dull,” she observed, “except that I must admit Hedda Kleian is interesting enough.”
“I am hoping to find her so,” Pryde assented.
Grace looked across at him with the beginning of a smile upon her lips. “You mustn’t lose your heart to her,” she said. “Hedda Kleian is much too intense a person to have anything to do with a frivolous man of the world.”
“You never can tell,” Pryde answered gloomily. “Since the one girl to whom I should have thought that my personal attractions and disposition must inevitably appeal persists in maintaining an unreasonably cold and distant attitude towards me—”
Grace yawned openly and struck a few keys of her typewriter. “Don’t be silly, dear partner,” she begged lightly. “Try to make room for me in this affair if you can. I am a little tired of typewriting.”
“And I’m sick of seeing you banging away at the beastly thing!” Pryde declared. “Why do I seem such an ogre to you, Grace? Why can’t you marry me?”
She looked across at him inscrutably. There was no smile upon her lips, no frown upon her forehead. The woman in her seemed hidden. It was the expression which he most hated. “What, a poor little typist,” she murmured, “without a penny in the world, marry a rich and noble gentleman like you? It really couldn’t be thought of!”
“You little idiot!” he cried. “Can’t you see more than a yard in front of you? You seem to live in a silly fog. Can’t you understand that if you give me yourself, you give me something more precious than every penny I have in the world, every possession that could ever come to me?”
She went on looking at him. To all appearances her expression was unchanged, and yet, somehow, her eyes seemed to grow larger and softer. “Ah!” she said, “if I believed that it was possible for me to give myself like that!”
PRYDE found it a little difficult to make much headway with Hedda Kleian. She gave one look at him on taking her place, at his immaculate clothes, his brown moustache and fresh, open complexion, his carefully brushed hair and manicured nails, and seemed forthwith to banish him from her thoughts. She replied only vaguely to his attempts at polite conversation. Pryde had to content himself with watching her. She was certainly rather a striking figure. In a gathering where too many of the women were disposed to appear in dresses cut a little too low and of colours a shade too violent, and with coiffures much too professional, she struck a note of careless and natural simplicity which was, in its way, remarkably effective. Disdaining the conventions which required her to display a certain portion of her person, she wore a high-backed black dress. Her ornaments consisted simply of a long chain of blue and black beads. Her hair—great folds there were of silky black hair—was simply coiled around her head and allowed to droop a little behind in long, natural plaits, undecorated in any way. Her figure, although she chose to conceal it, was obviously magnificent. Her cheeks were pale, her lips full and red, her eyes long and of a peculiar shade of dark blue. She ate scarcely anything, and although she ordered wine, she only sipped it. She had looked round the room at first with much curiosity, which by degrees disappeared. It was obvious to Pryde that she was rapidly becoming bored.
“I wonder why you came?” he asked her suddenly, when they were half-way through dinner.
She turned her head a little lazily. “Why shouldn’t I?” she retorted. “The Wanderers’ Club is supposed to appeal to all of artistic and Bohemian tastes. I am, I believe, an artist. I am certainly a Bohemian. What are you?”
“Neither,” he answered promptly. “I am one of those who have come to see the people who aren’t here.”
She looked at his name on the plan. “A title too!” she murmured.
“Quite a recent affair,” Pryde assured her. “I am scarcely used to it myself yet.”
“Well,” she remarked, “I came here to meet new types. I try to live a broad life. It doesn’t do to shut anything out, does it?”
He smiled as though amused. “They told me that I should find you intelligent, Miss Kleian,” he said. “I am almost afraid they were right.”
“Don’t you like intelligent people?” she asked.
He shook his head. “Intelligence,” he pronounced, “is nearly always self-conscious. I think if I could find an intelligent person who was ignorant of the fact, it might be interesting.”
“Go on,” she begged. “Amplify your remark.”
“To tell you the truth,” he continued. “I am rather sick of reading about you. Are you fond of advertisement? One reads everywhere that, notwithstanding your profession, which from a suburban point of view is still supposed to lead to free love and through the gates of hell, you eat nothing but bread and drink nothing but water. And you live among a little community who share everything they possess, who make war upon the rich, and pat the starving on the back. It sounds so very much like a pose.”
For the first time her features lightened. Something that was a little repellent in the hard immobility of her face gave way altogether. She smiled, and Pryde knew that she was the most beautiful woman he had ever seen.
“After all, I was wrong about you,” she declared, looking at him critically. “You look much too perfect to be anything but dull.”
“I am particular about my clothes and my person,” he replied, “because it is part of my philosophy. What is your philosophy, Miss Kleian?”
“Come and have lessons,” she suggested. “You look to me just the sort of person to embrace the primitive life.”
“I do it once a year at Carlsbad,” he sighed.
“It can be done just as easily in Bermondsey,” she assured him.
He drew out his notebook. “Time and place, please, for my first lesson?” he begged.
She hesitated. Once more she turned her head slightly. “How do I know that you are in earnest?”
“How do you know that I exist?” he replied. “Nothing has ever been proved or is really apparent except that this is a bad dinner. That doesn’t trouble you much, I see. However, if you’ve any doubts about me, let me assure you that I am in earnest. I have been tired of the level ways for a long time. Show me a better system of life, and I will embrace it. They tell me that you have royal princes serving you like beggars and members of Parliament worshipping at your shrine. There ought to be a place for me.”
“Will you wear the cap and bells?” she asked.
“If I may shake the bells and doff the cap for your pleasure,” he answered.
“The first lesson you will have to learn,” she said deliberately, “is that in all the highest forms of altruism, personal—that is to say, individual—feelings must be abnegated.”
“That sounds difficult,” Pryde admitted. “Do you mean that I am at liberty to feel only the same towards you as towards the old dowager opposite with the false front?”
She laughed softly. “You are applying a great principle to a ridiculous example,” she declared. “Never mind, I see that there are hopes of you. We have the usual passion, you see, for converts. You can accompany me home this evening, if you like. I will show you the beginnings.”
Pryde was careful not to show too much exultation, and a little later on they left the place together. She frowned when she saw his motor-car draw up before the door.
“I do not like private vehicles,” she observed. “I should have preferred an omnibus.”
“I don’t happen to have one,” Pryde rejoined. “Where shall I tell him to go?”
She gave him an address in Bermondsey. Pryde repeated it to the chauffeur and became for a moment thoughtful. She peered at him through half-closed eyes—a little way she had—as though, notwithstanding her wonderful eyes, she were shortsighted.
“You seem to recognise the address,” she remarked.
“I went there once to call upon Mr. Cammerley.”
“So you know Philip Cammerley—you!”
“Why not?”
“Oh, I don’t know,” she answered, with a little laugh. “Somehow or other, you seem to me to-night to represent so perfectly the other things.”
“What is it that you represent, I wonder?” he demanded. “I have read a good deal of what the critics have said about you. Are you just a clever poseuse, an actress in a new rôle. Or are you really and absolutely sincere, an enthusiast—a prophetess, as one of the newspapers described you?”
“Whatever you may believe of me,” she replied, “believe at least this—I am sincere. The stage has no glamour for me. I act in no play whose teaching is not our teaching. I act for our cause and for our cause alone. There are many who can write. There are not so many who can reach the people just in the way that I reach them.”
“Are you married?” Pryde asked a little bluntly.
She peered at him again, laughing all the time. “I married! How foolish! I am a sister to all the men who are of our cause. Marriage is not for the toilers.”
Pryde scratched his chin for a moment thoughtfully. “Do you ever have any trouble with your—your brothers?” he asked.
She shrugged her shoulders. “Naturally,” she replied. “We have so many converts, so many who are learning. See, we have arrived. Now I am going to keep you only a very few minutes to-night. I am going to show you just one or two rooms. If you want to learn more, you must come again, or attend some of our outside lectures.”
They had stopped outside the house in Denman Street. She unfastened the door with a key which she carried. Pryde saw at once that many changes had taken place inside. She passed down a broad and lofty passage, plainly furnished, and ushered him into a long room at the back of the house. There were two tables, covered with green baize, and with sufficient space to accommodate forty or fifty people sitting side by side. About a dozen people were there now, reading. Every chair was just the same. There was a queer monotony of furniture and appointments. The room had somehow a monastic air.
“This,” she explained, “is our common room. We each have our place at one of these tables, balloted for every week. We take our meals here, afterwards we bring down our books and read. The only private rooms in the place are our bedrooms. It is here that we spend our time. We do not believe in solitude.”
“Very interesting,” Pryde remarked. “Who are these people?”
There were seven or eight men, mostly youths, seated about, some reading, some writing. There were also four or five girls similarly engaged. They were all very plainly dressed, anæmic, and with the air of the enthusiast.
“These are some of the members of our little society,” Hedda Kleian said.
“Are they all English?” Pryde asked.
“Most of them,” she answered.
“The young man opposite to me, for instance,” Pryde remarked, motioning with his head towards a fair young man of stolid appearance, sitting a little apart from the others, with a pile of books before him, from which he had looked up at their entrance. His eyes now were riveted upon Hedda Kleian. She smiled at him.
“That,” she whispered, “is one of our newest converts. No, he is not English.”
“What is his name?”
“It does not matter,” she answered softly. “We know one another here mostly by our Christian names. I call him Francis. We have a lecture-room at the back, where every night for half an hour one of us speaks. It is closed now.”
“But do you mean to say,” Pryde asked, “that you have only a bedroom besides this common room?”
“That is all.”
“But where do you study your parts?”
“In here,” she replied. “Why not? Company is good for us. It is good even for our work. There is nothing so bad as solitude.”
“It looks very interesting,” Pryde declared, “and sounds very interesting. I suppose you live for the good of one another?”
“We live for the good of the future race,” she told him. “That is the only way it is possible to live. The pathway to happiness is too long a one for us ever to reach the goal. We can only make the way a little easier for those who come afterwards.”
“At any cost?”
“At any cost.”
“May I come in to one of the lectures?” he asked, as they passed back into the hall.
She shook her head. “Those are only for the society,” she replied. “The lectures for those who wish to consider our doctrines are free to the public. I will give you a syllabus, if you like, before you go.”
The door of the room which Pryde had known as Mr. Cammerley’s study was suddenly opened. Mr. Cammerley himself stood on the threshold.
“Ah!” he exclaimed, “I thought that I recognized the voice! Our friend Pryde, I think?”
Pryde nodded. “I never expected,” he remarked coolly, “to find myself once more under your hospitable roof. Miss Kleian, however, has been explaining to me some of your new theories.”
“Miss Kleian probably did not know much about her pupil,” Mr. Cammerley rejoined dryly. “Please to step inside for a moment; and you, too, Hedda.”
Pryde hesitated for a moment. The front door was conveniently close, and Mr. Cammerley’s invitation was scarcely an auspicious one. Nevertheless, he accepted it. Hedda Kleian followed the two men in.
“I am afraid, Hedda, that you have made a little mistake to-night,” Mr. Cammerley observed. “This man whom you have brought here is not the simple person he looks. I regret to tell you that Mr. Pryde is a journalist and a spy.”
She seemed suddenly to dilate. Her eyes blazed.
“Not only that,” Mr. Cammerley continued, “but I think I can tell you just what has brought him. Has he seen into the common room?”
“Yes,” she murmured.
“Then he has seen Francis,” Mr. Cammerley said quietly. “I have no doubt, then, that he has achieved the first part of his visit here. Is that not so, Mr. Pryde?”
Pryde shook his head. “My visit was merely one of curiosity,” he replied. “I sat next Miss Kleian at the Wanderers’ dinner. I accepted her invitation to come here.”
“And to-morrow, I presume,” Mr. Cammerley remarked, “we shall find a sensational article in the newspapers—‘A Royal Prince Turned Socialist!’?”
“Have you a royal prince here?” Pryde asked calmly.
Mr. Cammerley kicked a footstool which was close to him. Then he took Pryde by the arm and led him to the front door. “You and I once made a little bargain,” he said. “We have both kept our words. Now let me give you a piece of advice. Keep outside these doors. If you make any attempt to communicate with any person resident here—I am not referring to Miss Kleian, of course—it will be the worse for you.”
“There can be no occasion,” Hedda Kleian pronounced slowly, “for Sir Stephen Pryde to communicate with me. As a commonplace young man of fashion, as I thought him at first, he failed to interest me. I gave him credit merely for an inquiring disposition. As a journalistic spy I have nothing but contempt for him.”
“Thanks so much,” Pryde murmured, as he stepped into the car. “Anyway, it has been a most delightful evening!”</story>