<story title="THE MARVELLOUS ESCAPE OF MR. HASLEM" date="1914">
THEY were met at the head of the stairs by Jean, who hurried along the crowded room towards them.
“If I could only persuade mademoiselle,” he begged, “to dine here, I will arrange a round table for two. Downstairs, it is so triste and damp.”
“Another time, Jean,” Pryde declared. “I have been away, and we have a little matter to talk over, mademoiselle and I. We like the quiet down there.”
Jean shrugged his shoulders. It was unaccountable. However, it must be as mademoiselle preferred. He escorted them down the stairs himself.
“We are having plans made,” he confided to them, “for turning this into a large grill-room. It is only the kitchen accommodation which is difficult. Mademoiselle will like her accustomed seat?”
They decided to move farther into the corner, however, and found themselves at the next table to the little gentleman with the gold spectacles, who favoured them with a bland, but benevolent stare. He called Jean to him.
“Waiter,” he said, in a smooth, cultivated voice, “I have dined here for two months and I have never made a complaint.”
“I am glad that monsieur has been so well served,” Jean remarked.
“I have been abominably served,” was the indignant reply. “I care little for my food. I come here only because it is quiet and because I may read and because it is near my work. But even a worm will turn. I desire to inform you that your food is the worst I have ever tasted, that it reaches me half cold, that your service is abominable and your charges exorbitant. After to-night I shall look for another restaurant. It is all.”
The natural instinct of the maître d’hôtel seemed for the moment to triumph in Jean. He began to apologize, but the little man waved him away.
“It is my first complaint,” he declared; “it is my last.”
Jean departed. The little man was settling down again to his papers. He glanced for a moment, however, at Grace.
“I trust,” he said, “that I have not made myself objectionable? You, madam, also, have been, I believe, an habituée here. I must confess that I wonder at it.”
Grace smiled.
“I certainly have not come here to dine well or cheaply,” she asserted. “I think, really, I have come because I am fond of the unusual, and because there is something about the place which rather mystifies me.”
“In what way?” the little gentleman asked.
Grace shook her head.
“Just an idea.”
The little gentleman drew his newspaper closer to him.
“Madam,” he said, “I have no faith in ideas. I am a physician. Science is at once my mistress and my hobby. It provides me with all the mysteries I require. As for this place, it is nothing but a draughty, ill-managed hole. I have finished with it. Pardon me.”
He plunged into his paper with the air of one who has concluded a conversation. There were only two other diners in the room—one, a powerful, sunburnt man in tweed clothes, who sat with a bottle of wine in front of him and a newspaper propped up against it, dining, apparently, entirely to his satisfaction; the other had the appearance of being one of the staff. The dinner was a little better than usual, and, curiously enough, it was served almost precipitately.
“One would imagine,” Pryde remarked, “that they wanted to get rid of us.”
Grace looked around the room. The tablecloths had been removed from the other tables, and there were no signs of any other diners being expected.
“What about our friend there?” she inquired, inclining her head slightly towards the sunburnt man.
“A countryman or colonial,” Pryde decided; “wandered in here by accident. Probably didn’t care for it upstairs because of his clothes and thick boots.”
“He looks like that,” Grace admitted.
They finished their dinner presently. There seemed to be nothing to wait for. The little doctor had lit a pipe and was reading over his coffee. The sunburnt man was leaning back in his chair, apparently thoroughly satisfied with his dinner. As they passed out, Pryde obeyed a sudden impulse and spoke to him.
“Do you mind if I take one of your matches?” he asked.
The man pushed them to him without a word. Pryde made some difficulty about striking one.
“Everything down here seems damp,” he remarked. “Gives one the feeling of being half underground, doesn’t it?”
The sunburnt man looked up at Pryde and frowned. Then he turned a little away, crossing his legs, and took up his paper again.
“Hadn’t noticed it,” he declared shortly.
Pryde caught Grace up, smiling.
“Your friend with the red cheeks,” he told her, “has about the worst manners of any man I ever knew. He seemed afraid of being spoken to.”
She laughed.
“I noticed that he didn’t seem to take to you,” she remarked. “At any rate, he seems very well able to take care of himself.”
They passed Jean descending the stairs with a bottle of old brandy in his hand. Pryde left the place almost reluctantly.
“Well?” Grace asked.
“I suppose that fellow’s all right,” Pryde said thoughtfully. “The little doctor was just getting up to go as we came away. He will be the last one.”
“I never saw anyone who looked better able to take care of himself,” Grace murmured.
The night was hot, the streets were light as day. As though by common consent they walked. At the corner of Piccadilly Circus Pryde halted.
“What do you say to a ride on the top of a motor omnibus?” he suggested.
“It would, perhaps, be pleasant,” Grace assented.
“There’s one at the corner there, for Hampstead,” he said. “Come.”
They were crossing the road when Grace felt a light touch on her arm. She turned quickly round, Mr. Simmons was walking by her side.
“Stroke of luck, seeing you, Miss Burton,” he remarked.
“I am glad you think so,” she answered, “You know Mr. Pryde, don’t you?”
Mr. Simmons bit his lip.
“Of course I do. Sorry! I only caught sight of you that moment. Are you in a hurry, Miss Burton?”
“I am never in a hurry,” she replied, “if there is anything to be done.”
“Will you please both step into the Monico with me, then?” he begged. “We will have some coffee. I want to show you a letter.”
“Certainly,” Grace agreed.
Mr. Simmons escorted her politely to the door of the restaurant. Pryde looked a little regretfully at the top of the motor omnibus and followed. They found a small table against the wall, and Mr. Simmons ordered coffee. Then he drew from his pocket a letter, which he did not, however, at once open.
“I wonder,” he said, “if you have, either of you, heard of the Eburian Copper Mine?”
“Of course,” Pryde replied. “The annual meeting is to-morrow, isn’t it? They say there’s going to be an awful row.”
“There probably will be,” Mr. Simmons assented. “I know we’ve orders to draft a hundred police down to the Cannon Street Hotel. Let me remind you of the facts. Miss Burton may not know them. There have been six hundred thousand pounds’ worth of shares issued and paid for on the strength of certain reports. A month ago there was a sensational article in a financial paper absolutely discrediting the mine. There was a fearful panic, of course, and the company sent out the greatest known mining expert—a man named Haslem—to make an independent report. He has not been allowed to send a telegram or a letter. He arrived in London secretly to-night. The meeting is to-morrow.”
Pryde and Grace were both interested now. Their coffee stood before them, neglected.
“To-night,” the detective continued, slowly unfolding the letter, “I was in my office when this was brought in, this with an enclosure. I will read the letter first. It seems to be from Haslem, and it is written from Delacher’s Hotel:
“‘Dear Sir,—I received the enclosed letter on my arrival in London this evening. I am sending it on to you as a matter of form, for I think I can take care of myself. You may know me by name. I have to give evidence at the Cannon Street Hotel to-morrow with regard to the Eburian Mine.—Faithfully,“‘John Haslem.’”
Pryde and Grace had exchanged swift glances.
“Delacher’s Hotel!” she murmured.
“Now for the enclosure,” Mr. Simmons continued. “Here it is—the usual sort of thing—plain paper, typewritten, and all the rest of it. Let me read it:
“‘Mr. Haslem.
“‘Sir,—To-morrow you are going to give evidence which will practically ruin half a dozen of the most unscrupulous company promoters in London. Read the advice of a friend. Take care of yourself to-night. London is not altogether the city of safety one is apt to believe.
“‘From One Who Knows.’?”
“What have you done about this?” Pryde asked quickly.
“I sent a new man, whom no one would recognize, to Delacher’s Hotel,” Mr. Simmons announced. “He did his work quite satisfactorily. Haslem arrived at about five o’clock, and must have sent that note off to me very soon afterwards. He took a bedroom and asked Paul, the head porter, for some quiet place where he could dine without being noticed, as he didn’t wish to be seen in London at all till next day. Paul directed him to—where do you think?”
Grace was sitting quite still. Her eyes seemed to have grown larger.
“To the Café Suprême!” she cried.
The inspector smiled a little indulgently.
“I know you have that place on the brain, Miss Burton,” he said. “Personally, as I’ve searched it plank by plank, I don’t exactly—why, what’s the matter?”
Grace was already half-way towards the door. Pryde dragged him up.
“Haslem was at the Café Suprême when we left!” he exclaimed. “And, by God! he wasn’t there for nothing! Quick! We’ll explain on the way.”
They hurried into a taxicab.
“Look here,” Pryde said, “notwithstanding your search, Mr. Simmons, there’s something wrong about that place. Paul sent Dupoy there, and you know what happened to him. Haslem is another man with enemies. I tell you he was sitting down there twenty minutes ago. They’d got him.”
Mr. Simmons was an unprejudiced person. To a certain extent, he believed in Grace and he believed in Pryde.
“We’ll fetch him out, then, at any rate,” he declared. “Is there likely to be any trouble, I wonder?”
“If so, we can deal with it,” Pryde replied. “Miss Burton can stay outside and bring in a policeman or two after us if we don’t reappear.”
“Miss Burton will do nothing of the sort,” she retorted. “If this is anyone’s affair, it’s mine.”
The taxicab pulled up at the corner. They all three hurried across the pavement. The upper room was still filled with a cheerful crowd. They hastened towards the staircase. A watchful waiter intercepted them.
“It is closed downstairs, monsieur,” he announced.
Pryde flung him out of the way. They descended quickly. The band had ceased to play, half the lights were out, the doctor had left. Only Jean was there, standing by the table at which Haslem had been sitting. There was a broken glass upon the floor, the tablecloth seemed to have been dragged sideways. Jean himself was swiftly setting things to rights. He started round as he heard footsteps. His face was suddenly almost ghastly. He clutched the table and stared at them.
“Where is the man who was sitting at that table?” Pryde demanded.
“He has left, monsieur,” Jean faltered, “five minutes ago. He had had too much to drink.”
Pryde glanced towards the other vacant table.
“And the doctor?” he asked.
“He left at nine o’clock, as usual, sir,” Jean answered. “He never varies his time. He has patients to receive.”
For one second Pryde hesitated. His first impulse was to plunge down into the cellar. Then Grace seized him by the arm.
“Quick!” she almost sobbed into his ear. “Quick!”
She tore up the stairs and they followed her. She flashed through the restaurant, through the swing doors, out into the street and turned sharply down the narrow thoroughfare past the left hand side of the building. Pryde and Simmons were only a few yards behind. At the end of the restaurant premises was a narrow house, on the door of which was a brass plate. Outside in the street, an ambulance wagon was standing. Grace leaned with her finger upon the bell. The man looked over from the box seat of the wagon. He was half frightened, half angry.
“Don’t do that!” he cried. “There’s someone ill inside.”
They took no notice of him. They heard footsteps in the hall. The door was cautiously opened by a woman who was dressed like a hospital nurse. They broke past her, and Pryde threw open the door of the room on the left. Haslem was there, unconscious, breathing heavily, stretched out on what seemed to be an operating table. The little doctor with the gold spectacles, dressed now in a long linen smock, turned and faced them. Outside, they could hear the ambulance wagon galloping away.
“Drop that knife,” Pryde shouted, “or, by God, I’ll wring your neck!”
The knife slipped from the man’s fingers. For a moment there was a strange silence. A draught was blowing through the room. Pryde glanced away for a single second; a door in the wall stood a little ajar.
“Take that fellow, Simmons,” Pryde ordered. “We must get a doctor at once.”
The little man with the gold glasses beamed upon them.
“My friends from the Café Suprême!” he remarked. “After all, then, the young lady has wits. Pardon!”
His fingers flashed from his waistcoat pocket to his mouth. He waved Pryde away as he sank into an easy chair.
“Quite unnecessary,” he murmured. “I shall be dead within five minutes. Another martyr to the cause of science. I never could resist these little affairs. One learned so much.”
MR. HASLEM was able, after all, to give his evidence at the Cannon Street Hotel on the following day, but would-be lunchers at the Café Suprême were disappointed. The doors of the restaurant were closed, without any reason with which the public were ever made aware other than the painfully sudden death of the proprietor and Jean—his chief maître d’hôtel. The disappearance of Paul was wrapped in mystery. He received a telephone message late in the evening, and strolled away from the hotel in his full uniform a few minutes later. When the police arrived he was not to be found. His escape was one of those episodes not mentioned by persons of tact before Inspector Simmons.
Pryde and Grace stood outside the restaurant the next morning and watched the locked doors with complete satisfaction.
“At last,” she sighed, “I can go back to my dear café. Already I am longing for one of Charles’s omelettes.”
“On this occasion only,” he pleaded.
“Very well,” she acceded; “you may come.”</story>