<story title="THE PRINCE WHO RAN AWAY" date="1913">
FOR the next three nights Pryde and Grace occupied stalls in the Bijou Theatre, and came to the simultaneous decision that Hedda Kleian was at least a great actress. The audiences, however, were anything but large. The play which she was presenting was gloomy and pessimistic. Nothing but the art of the woman had saved it from being classed among the failures. On the third night, Pryde, discovered Francis in the back row of the stalls. He followed him upstairs into the refreshment-room after the first act, and addressed him as casually as possible.
“Saw you down at Bermondsey the other night, didn’t I?”
The young man looked at his questioner suspiciously. He was in the act of raising a glass of beer to his lips. “I do not remember that I did see you there,” he replied stiffly.
“Miss Kleian brought me in—Monday night it was. She also told me, or rather Mr. Cammerley did, who you were.”
The young man finished his beer. “Ah!” he said. It was obvious that he was disinclined to enter into conversation.
Pryde adopted bolder tactics. “My young friend,” he continued, “do you know that a commission of Socialists from your country are on their way here to make you a presentation, to shake you by the hand, and to beg you to return and live among them?”
The young man set down his empty glass. He was genuinely alarmed. “But,” he protested, “I do not wish to see them. It is here I have decided to live.”
“That’s all very well,” Pryde remarked, “but they are scarcely likely to let you alone, are they? Will you take another bottle of this excellent beer with me?”
“So!” the young man assented.
Pryde gave the order. A moment or two later the young man, after some hesitation, thrust his hand into his pocket, drew out a folded slip of paper, and passed it to Pryde.
“Perhaps,” he said, “you can tell me something about this.”
Pryde opened the slip of paper and read:
“If you wish to know something of the real life of Hedda Kleian, you should pay a visit, any afternoon between two and four, to Miss Grace Burton, number 32A Colmayne Court Mansions.”
Pryde read these few words without any show of surprise, although he recognized Grace’s handwriting at once. Then he handed it back to the young man.
“I should go,” he advised.
“I shall not go,” was the stubborn reply. “If anyone should speak things of her which were not beautiful to listen to, then I think that, whether it were a man or a woman, I should twist his neck. So I will not go. So!”
He disposed of the second glass of beer and rose. He quitted Pryde with a ceremonious bow.
“I return to my place,” he announced. “Good evening, sir!”
Pryde returned to his seat a few minutes later.
“Seen His Royal Highness?” Grace whispered.
Pryde nodded. “Also your note to him.”
“I thought he might show it to you.”
“Why this secrecy?” Pryde demanded.
“Just a little lesson to you,” she answered. “You were getting a trifle uppish about this affair, you know. So clever of you, wasn’t it, to go down to Bermondsey with her and see what she chose to show you?”
They watched the play for a few moments. Its interest, indeed, was compelling. Then Pryde turned once more to his companion.
“Do you mean to say that there is really something in her life, something which she keeps in the background?” he asked.
“Of course there is!” Grace assured him.
Pryde sighed. “Well,” he declared, “I must confess that I shouldn’t have believed it.”
“Tell me what he said about my message?” Grace asked abruptly.
“He showed it me and then tore it up,” Pryde replied. “I don’t think that anything would shake his faith in her.”
“He will not come, then?”
“He will not.”
They waited until the close of the performance. They saw Francis walking up and down outside the stage-door, waiting. A few minutes later, they saw Hedda Kleian come out, saw the brilliant smile with which she greeted him, saw her take his arm. They watched the two walk slowly up to the Strand together, and wait for an omnibus.
“I don’t understand this affair,” Pryde confessed. “Why he’s madly in earnest! She could do what she liked with him. See what he has given up, what he does for her sake! And they go home together in an omnibus! She must be honest!”
“Such a masculine point of view!” Grace murmured. “This just proves how excellent a thing a partnership is. You know, there is the man’s point of view and the woman’s point of view in every phase of life.”
Pryde met Mr. Philip Cammerley, M.P., the next day in Westminster. The meeting was an accidental one, although as a matter of fact Pryde had wasted a good deal of time in manœuvring for it. Mr. Cammerley, brought to a standstill, thrust his hands into the loose pockets of his coat, and from under his slouch hat frowned heavily.
“What do you want with me, sir?” he asked. “Any new schemes, eh?”
“Always full of them,” Pryde replied cheerfully. “Not quite so daring as some of yours, perhaps, but still full of interest.”
Mr. Cammerley’s thin lip curled. “Why do you stop me?” he demanded. “I don’t like you. You have made yourself on more than one occasion an unmitigated nuisance to me. I haven’t the least desire for any association with you or your friends.”
“You are unfair, Mr. Cammerley,” Pryde expostulated. “As a matter of fact, I stopped you to offer a little piece of information. Do you know that Breitmann and two others of the Socialist party of his country will be in England within forty-eight hours, here to visit you and to find out for themselves whether these rumours about your latest disciple are the truth?”
Cammerley frowned heavily. “I heard something of it,” he muttered. “I don’t know how it came to your ears.”
“That doesn’t matter much, does it?” Pryde continued. “Their object is plain enough. They want to take the young man back to his own country and make use of him there. Rather a loss for you that would be, wouldn’t it? I know they’ve stopped all the money they can, but there’s still enough coming in to run the show down at Bermondsey.”
Mr. Cammerley’s eyes flashed. “What the devil has all this to do with you, sir?” he demanded.
“Nothing in the world,” Pryde admitted. “The only thing is I thought I’d give you a tip. So long as you keep Hedda Kleian, you’ll keep the prince.”
“You call that a tip!” Cammerley growled. “Any fool can see that. And now, young man since you think yourself so clever, I’ll tell you something. They’d like to get him back again in his own country, a prince of the royal house. Very well. Supposing they succeeded, this is the truth. It isn’t only we poor sufferers fighting the masters of the world with nothing but our brains, fighting against the landlords, the millionaires, the aristocracy—it isn’t we only who sometimes take the sheath from our knives and strike. I tell you that if he goes back to his country with these men, he will not live a month.”
“Why not?” Pryde asked. “Who will hurt him?”
“The aristocrats,” Cammerley declared bitterly, “the patriotic party. They wouldn’t dare to face the possibility of a people’s man coming to the throne. They wouldn’t dare to face it. Oh, they’ve their creatures, hirelings, who kill for gold! When we kill, Sir Stephen Pryde, and we kill when we think it our duty to, we do it for the sake of our principles.”
Mr. Cammerley passed on, and Pryde went thoughtfully towards his club. He happened to meet Sir James in Whitehall, and they stopped to talk for a few minutes.
“Any luck at all?” the latter asked anxiously.
Pryde nodded. “If I get him to the embassy with me,” he said slowly, “his own embassy, that’s enough, isn’t it?”
“Absolutely,” Sir James replied. “We tried to get him there in a good many ways before I spoke to you.”
“There’s just a chance,” Pryde remarked. “I can’t say much about it. It’s Miss Burton’s idea. Probably next Sunday.”
Sir James’s face brightened. “Look here, Pryde,” he said. “I can quite understand that the financial side of this matter may have ceased to attract you. But there’s Miss Burton to be considered, and, I can’t tell, but if this should come off I might have something to suggest that even you would find interesting.”
“Right, sir,” Pryde answered cheerily. “I think we’ll bring this off.”
Nevertheless, it was not to be an easy task. Pryde was at the theatre again that night, and talked for some time with Francis without making much progress. The young man, indeed, was becoming suspicions.
“I do not understand,” he said, “why you do come here so often. Is it that you also admire this wonderful lady?”
“I think her acting is marvellous,” Pryde declared.
Francis called for more beer. “It is not her acting,” he insisted. “It is herself. It is she who is so wonderful. All day she dreams and plans for the betterment of the world. Of herself she thinks nothing ever. She makes us all seem so weak, so selfish, and yet one must adore.”
“One must,” Pryde admitted. “By the by, did you know that that deputation of Socialists from your country was calling on you on Sunday?”
“I did not know,” Francis replied. “I shall hide.”
“Come and motor with me,” Pryde suggested. “I’ll take you away in the country.”
The young man shook his head. “They tell me not to trust you,” he remarked. “They all believe that you have some scheme of your own. They think that you are trying to get me to return to my country. It is so foolish. Still, if it pleases you to waste your time, who should object? Only I will not go motoring with you on Sunday.”
“All right,” Pryde answered, “stay and meet Breitmann and the rest of them. They are going to prove to you that it is your plain and simple duty to return to your own country, and to make converts there.”
The young man moved uneasily in his chair. “I shall stay where I am,” he declared.
“Will you come with me a little way,” Pryde asked, “if I promise, on my word of honour—you understand, my honour?—to take you back to Bermondsey at any hour you choose during the afternoon?”
The young man hesitated. “Your word of honour?” he repeated.
“Absolutely,” Pryde assured him.
“Very well, I will come,” the young man assented. “I do not know why you do want me on those terms. Perhaps I shall find out. But to your word of honour I will trust.”
Pryde found his guest waiting for him by Guy’s Hospital on the following Sunday morning. The young man stopped the motor-car by holding out both hands, and clambering in rapidly.
“It will be well to turn round and go quickly,” he announced. “The deputation arrived just as I left. I did descend by the back window.”
Pryde turned, and they soon left Bermondsey behind them. “You do not mind a young lady joining us—a great friend of mine?” Pryde asked.
“It will be a pleasure,” the young man replied. “I am not unsociable. I like to welcome everyone.”
They picked up Grace at the flats, and struck out for the country. The prince enjoyed himself immensely.
“It is perhaps selfish of me, this,” he remarked once. “There was work to be done and a lecture, but it is a beautiful holiday. Sundays, too, are dreary days.”
“Hedda Kleian is not often there on a Sunday, is she?” Pryde asked.
The young man shook his head sorrowfully. “She goes to see an aged mother,” he announced, “who has, alas! no sympathy with the truth. Without her the whole place seems gloomy. The work palls. One even ventures sometimes to doubt. When she is there, the sun shines. Then one sees all things clearly.”
Pryde nodded. “Hers is a wonderful personality,” he declared.
The young man’s face glowed. “She is marvellous,” he said in an almost awed tone. “She is wonderful. She thinks of herself never. It is always for the great good of the world. She forgets herself. She seems sometimes to have no real existence. Her eyes are fixed upwards. She soars always. One is happy to hold her fingers and be lifted with her. She is a prophetess.”
They came back to London about one o’clock.
“I am hungry,” the prince confessed frankly.
“We will lunch very soon,” Pryde told him. “Just for a moment we must call here.”
The car had pulled up at the corner of a street in an outlying suburb.
“We all descend here for a minute,” Pryde said. “Come along. Will you help Miss Burton, Mr. Francis?”
“Do I get out also?” the prince asked.
“For five minutes only,” Pryde begged. “I promise you it shall not be longer.”
The prince, who seemed to have gained confidence in his companions, obeyed. They proceeded a short distance down the street. Then Pryde pushed open the little wooden gate of one of the small houses, walked up the path, and turned the handle of the front door.
“Come this way,” he directed, leading the way down a narrow hall.
Both followed close on his heels. A servant, capless and hot, as though straight from the kitchen stared at them open-mouthed. Pryde pushed open the door of the dining-room. He gripped the prince by the arm.
“Prince,” he said, “you find it dull to spend your Sunday without a glimpse of Hedda Kleian. You see, I have taken pity on you. There are Hedda Kleian and Hedda Kleian’s husband and Hedda Kleian’s two children and Hedda Kleian’s sister.”
There was a moment’s silence. They were standing upon the threshold of a small dining-room, poorly furnished with a cheap mahogany suite which showed signs of wear. There was linoleum upon the floor in place of carpet, linoleum sparsely covered with a faded rug. At a table in the middle of the room was seated a man apparently about thirty-five years of age, a Jew, with black moustache and pale heavy face. Beside him was Hedda; on the other side were two children, sharp-featured, sallow, yet with wonderful eyes. Another woman, like Hedda, only stouter and coarser, made up the party. It was a very commonplace little gathering, sitting down to a very commonplace midday Sunday meal. Only, with the coming of these three people, a note of tragedy seemed to creep into the room. Hedda rose slowly from her place. The prince was shaking.
“You!” she exclaimed. “You!”
Even in those few seconds the prince seemed to have lost his colour. His lips and voice shook, he gripped at Pryde. His eyes were fixed upon Hedda Kleian.
“Your children?” he cried falteringly. “Your husband? Yours?”
She stood quite still. Then she looked from Pryde to Grace, and the truth seemed to dawn upon her. She came towards Francis.
“So they have dragged my little secret up to the light, dear brother!” she exclaimed. “Well, what does it matter? I can be still to you and to the others what I have always been.”
“Why have you made a mystery of this?” he asked hoarsely.
“You ask me that!” she replied. “Would you be in Bermondsey to-day if you had known the truth? Would those others listen to me and think me wonderful if they knew that I was married to a tailor, and that I had children? Yet these things do not alter me. They do not alter anything.”
One of the children began to cry. The man was frowning—the beef in front of him was getting cold.
“Come, come,” he said. “Hedda, cannot your friends choose another time to call? What does it all mean?”
The prince gripped Pryde by the arm. “Let us go,” he muttered hoarsely. “I must think.”
Hedda made no attempt to stop them.
Pryde directed his chauffeur to drive to the Carlton. “We will now lunch,” he said, “like civilised persons. Prince, if I have played a trick upon you, I have had justification. A moderate amount of those teachings is a splendid adjunct to our other thoughts. A great ruler is none the worse for having lived for a little time with the people. But extremes are bad.”
The young man said little. He was very depressed for some time. Only when they reached the Carlton he cheered up.
“I am hungry,” he remarked, with satisfaction.
They lunched at some length. After they had finished they found a comfortable corner in the palm-court. Then Pryde touched his companion on the arm. The prince was smoking an enormous cigar and drinking liqueurs freely.
“I am ready,” Pryde announced, “to keep my word and take you back to Bermondsey. Or, if you would like a change, why not call round at your own embassy? Wallenstein’s nephew is there. He is giving a little party to-night at the Savoy—a rather Bohemian affair, I am afraid, but I know they are looking for you. You had better make friends with your ambassador first. Your clothes are all there.”
The young man drew a long sigh. “Very well,” he declared. “I shall be a Socialist no longer. It is agreed.”
That night Grace and Pryde dined with Sir James at his great house in Portman Square. Afterwards they sat in his library for an hour. When the time came for them to say farewell he spoke seriously.
“Sir Stephen,” he said, “and you, Miss Burton, this is the third occasion on which you have both been of signal service to me. I see before us a time in which troubles may be frequent. Let me make a proposition to you.”
“To us both?” Pryde asked.
“To you both,” Sir James answered. “There is a little house in Pont Street belonging to the government, it has been occupied before by those who have been useful to us. It is vacant now. I need help which you two could give me. Why not give up your connection with Scotland Yard altogether? Let them see their way through their own troubles. Diplomacy may sometimes seem more trival, but in the end it is more fascinating. If—if one of you,” Sir James went on hesitatingly, “could set up housekeeping there, and the other one be a frequent visitor, perhaps it might be managed that way. I should want you always at my beck and call. The house and servants and three thousand a year. There, I say no more now. Let me know to-morrow.”
They drove home together. Grace took her place in the car with a curious little hesitation. She sat upright, looking very still and white. She kept her head turned away from Pryde. Yet when his fingers touched hers, almost by accident, she did not withdraw them.
“Grace!” he begged.
The streets were almost empty. A slight rain was falling, and Pryde pulled up all the windows. He leaned a little towards her. The hand which he still held, which he was holding for longer than he had held it before in his life, seemed very cold. For the first time it was passive. He leaned closer to her. She was trembling.
“Grace!” he said again.
She turned her head. Her eyes were full of tears, her lips were quivering. “Oh, I am so foolish!” she murmured. “I didn’t mean—you can’t want me really.”
His arms were around her, and her head dropped on his shoulder. “Little lady,” he whispered, “I have wanted you so badly that nothing else has seemed worth while. I have wanted you so badly that I haven’t enjoyed a day of my prosperity. I have done nothing but want you and think of you. Tell me that my time has come now?”
Her face was hidden. She attempted no reply; it scarcely seemed necessary.
“We will keep house together in Pont Street,” he concluded, “and we will teach the world to forget Machiavelli.”</story>