<story title="“THE GIRLS OF LONDON”" date="1913">
PRYDE and Grace Burton were having tea together in her sitting-room. Notwithstanding the drawn blinds and the open window, the room seemed to be full of the August dust and heat.
“Perhaps now,” Pryde remarked, as he drank his third cup of tea, “you’ll tell me why you have been so silent all the afternoon?”
She looked at him fixedly. “I was thinking,” she said, “about the kind friend who lends you his motor-car so often.”
Pryde opened his cigarette-case and tapped a cigarette leisurely against its side. “What does it matter?” he asked.
“Not much,” she admitted, “except that sometimes I have wondered whether you are being quite honest with me. Sometimes—”
She stopped short. Without any suggestion of a knock, the door had been suddenly thrown open. A woman stood upon the threshold. Pryde was conscious of a wave of perfume, a flutter of draperies, a strange, bewildering likeness—and yet, what a difference!
“My dearest Grace!” the new-comer exclaimed. “You sly little woman! And you never—”
She broke off, as though seeing Pryde for the first time. She turned smilingly towards him.
“Please forgive me,” she went on. “I am so used to finding Grace alone that it never occurred to me she might have a visitor.”
Grace had risen to her feet. She had the appearance of not being altogether pleased.
“This is my sister, Mr. Pryde,” she said. “Mrs. Laverington.”
Mrs. Laverington put out a delicately gloved hand and laughed up into Pryde’s face. He was still numb with the shock of the amazing likeness. It was another Grace, but how different! The young lady, whose deep brown eyes were seeking to hold his, was everything that a musical-comedy young lady should be.
“I have known Mr. Pryde—Sir Stephen now, isn’t it?—for quite a long time by sight,” Mrs. Laverington declared. “I do wish Grace wouldn’t introduce me by my married name. Everyone knows me so much better as Stella Forde. Now, you have heard of Miss Stella Forde, haven’t you, Sir Stephen, although I am sure you have never heard of Mrs. Laverington? And if you are a friend of Grace, and she asks you here to tea, how is it she doesn’t know that you are Mr. Pryde no longer?”
For the moment Pryde was altogether at a loss. He glanced almost timidly toward Grace. She was looking very cold and stern. “The fact is,” he began—“well, to tell you the truth, I was rather afraid to tell your sister,” he went on, turning to the young lady who preferred to be known as Miss Stella Forde. “She is good enough to let me help her every now and then in one or two little affairs that come our way, and I was afraid it might make a difference.”
“It certainly would,” Grace said quietly.
Miss Stella Forde threw back her head and laughed softly. Pryde watched her with fixed eyes. There was a queer, disturbing fascination about this likeness. In a vague sort of way it distressed him.
“If you’re not the queerest, old-fashioned creature,” Miss Stella Forde declared. “However, I’m not going to interfere in what isn’t my business. Tell me what you think of our show, Sir Stephen? Don’t dare to say that you haven’t noticed me! And do you really like my grey costume in the second act?”
“I am sorry,” Pryde told her, “but I haven’t been to the Hilarity for over a year.”
“You haven’t seen The Girls of London?” Stella cried incredulously.
Pryde shook his head. “I am not very fond of musical comedy,” he remarked coolly.
“Silly!” she exclaimed, laughing into his face. “Well, you’ll have to come and see The Girls of London now. Promise, or I shan’t let you go, and I can see that you’re dying to get away.”
“I shall certainly come very soon,” Pryde promised. “If you should want me, Miss Burton,” he added a little wistfully, “I shall be either in my rooms or round at the club.”
“I don’t think that I am likely to,” she assured him.
Pryde spent an hour in his rooms and an hour at his club. London was almost a wilderness. Sir James was at Carlsbad; Inspector Simmons was taking a melancholy holiday at Margate. There was not a soul to talk to; not even a rubber of bridge worth cutting into. Finally he became sick of explaining why he was still in town, and went back to Grace’s rooms.
She had dragged her table into the coolest corner of the apartment, and was bending over her work when he entered. A sort of resentment gave him courage. Instead of the apology which had been upon his lips, he came toward her with a frown.
“My partner,” he declared, “this is absurd. You have no right to be doing this infernal work in this stuffy atmosphere.”
“And why not?” she asked, looking up at him ominously.
“Because if you’ve frittered away your share of the money we’ve made together, I haven’t,” he said. “You don’t seem to realise what a partnership means. I’m in funds, and you’re not. We’ve nothing to do, there’s no sign of our having anything to do. Let me lend or give you the money to go to the seaside for a month. You can choose any rotten little hole you fancy, and I’ll go to the other end of the kingdom, if you like, or abroad. To stick here and slave your self to death is simply ridiculous.”
Grace leaned back in her chair. Although she would not have let him know it for the world, she was feeling just a little giddy. All the life seemed to have been sapped out of the air; there was a buzzing, for a moment, in her ears. She set her teeth, however, and answered him.
“Our partnership,” she asserted, “is a matter of business. We have divided the profits fairly, whenever there have been any to divide. If I have chosen to spend mine, or if I have them and choose to save them, that is my affair. It has nothing whatever to do with you.”
“Rubbish!” he answered bluntly. “I’m getting tired of talking reasonably to you, Grace. I’ve come into some money. I dared not tell you that it was more than a trifle because I was afraid you’d push me outside altogether. You know very well, whatever you say about it, I’m your man. I can’t look at another woman. I can’t spend a happy hour anywhere, anyhow, knowing that you are here like this. For Heaven’s sake, push aside this selfishness, this cursed, priggish selfishness! I’ve fifty pounds in this envelope. Take it and get away into the country somewhere. You needn’t give me your address unless you like. I’ll keep away, somehow or other. But I can’t have a moment’s peace so long as you remain here.”
“Will you tell me,” she asked, “what compulsion there is upon me to add to your comfort by accepting charity?”
“Charity be hanged!” Pryde cried viciously. “What have you done with your own money, anyway?”
“I might reply, That is my business, but I will not,” Grace said. “I have one relation in the world. You saw her a couple of hours ago. She is married to a dear, good fellow who has gone abroad to work hard and try to make money for her. He has a splendid post, and everybody says that he is sure of success. It only means another year or two. In the meantime, Stella is a sort of charge upon me.”
“A charge, indeed!” Pryde muttered. “She must be getting ten pounds a week at the Hilarity.”
Grace sighed. “I think she is getting nearly that,” she admitted, “but you must remember that it is a very expensive life. They have to find costumes, and they must always be nicely dressed. Then Stella is fond of amusement and gaiety, and I’m afraid she is just a little easily led away. I don’t know whether you quite understand what I mean, but I want her to have all those small luxuries which to her are almost necessities without her having to accept them from anyone else.”
Pryde opened his lips and closed them again. Grace was looking at him steadfastly. The words which had trembled upon his lips died away, never to be uttered.
“You take too much upon yourself,” he insisted. “Your life is made up of nothing but privations. Surely your sister could face a few for her husband’s sake?”
“Stella is different,” Grace explained. “It is not her fault. She has never learned to do without some things which do not seem in the least necessary to me. It is of no use comparing us. We are of different moulds. I know what my duty is, and I’m going to try to do it. I want—oh! I want so much to be able to look after Stella so that when her husband comes there will be nothing to mar the joy of their meeting.”
Pryde turned away and walked to the window. Not for the world would he have told her the thoughts that were in his brain. He looked out over the tired, sunlit city, and there were tears in his eyes. “To revert,” he remarked presently, without turning his head, “to my first suggestion.”
“I do not wish to seem ungrateful,” Grace said, and her voice was noticeably softer. “Life means something a little different to all of us. To me the most precious part of it is the absolute preservation of my independence. It may seem somewhat priggish to you. I cannot help it. I have not been used to accepting favours from anyone. The day I began to do so, life would be different. I wish,” she went on, “I really wish that you would leave London for a time. Our little partnership has been very interesting, and it was useful to you when things weren’t going very well. Now you have no need to run such risks. Stella tells me that you are a baronet, with five or six thousand a year. It is a great compliment you have paid me to have just stayed on here and gone on as though nothing had happened, but it is my real wish,” she concluded, looking at him earnestly, “that you go. Things can’t be quite the same, you see. Please!”
He came a little nearer to her. “Oh, Grace,” he pleaded, “if only you would care just a little! You aren’t made of ice and all the chill things of life, are you? Underneath it all you’re a girl, like the rest. Close your eyes for a minute, throw away this hard workaday life. I want you, dear, so badly. Don’t make me miserable and throw away a great chance of happiness yourself, just because of this—do you mind if I say it?—stubborn pride. It is a man’s privilege to give to the woman he loves, and it isn’t an unequal bargain if the woman gives herself.”
Grace for a moment did not reply. Pryde had a sudden instinct of wild hope. Her lips were quivering, the faintest of flushes had stolen into her cheeks; the large, tired eyes had, without a doubt, grown softer. He caught at her hands. Perhaps he was premature, perhaps the sudden assertion of his physical strength repelled her. She shook her head.
“If you are kind,” she said, “you will leave me. My answer is already spoken, and I am a little tired, a little overwrought, this afternoon. Please!”
Pryde took up his hat and went. That night he sat in the stalls of the Hilarity Theatre, and was favoured with several very charming little glances and smiles from Miss Stella Forde. He gossiped with a few men whom he happened to know, and the next morning he sent her a little invitation, to which he received a charming reply—Stella Forde would be delighted to lunch with him at Prince’s at half-past one. She had seen him the night before. How horrid of him not to have come round! He must be very nice indeed if he hoped to be forgiven, and she was looking forward to seeing him ever so much, and she remained most sincerely his, Stella Forde.
The luncheon was quite a success. Stella was looking charming in white muslin, a great picture hat, the daintiest of shoes and white silk stockings. Pryde tried his best to make himself agreeable, and there seemed no limits at all to her amiability. And all the time, as he sat and looked into her face across the flower-laden table, Pryde was conscious of the most extraordinary mixture of revulsion and sentiment which he had ever known. It was Grace’s body and face and eyes which someone had stolen away and was misusing. Once, when she whispered a little challenge at him across the table, he could have taken her by the white throat and strangled her.
Luncheon was over before he spoke to her plainly. Then he drew his chair close to hers. “Miss Stella,” he said, “I am going to be very honest with you.”
“I hope that doesn’t mean,” she pouted, “that you’re going to be disagreeable.”
“I am in love with Grace,” he declared.
She made a grimace at him. “And I’m so much prettier,” she sighed. “Dear Grace is so good, but think how dowdy she is, and what a queer little person! I’m sure you’d find me more amusing. Besides, Grace is as cold as a fish. She doesn’t care for men a bit.”
“I am in love with Grace,” he repeated softly, “and I shall be in love with her all my life. She won’t have anything to say to me. All the same, I can’t alter. She is so tired and thin, and she wants a holiday terribly. She has spent all her savings—I think I know, Miss Stella, where they have gone to.”
Stella drew a little away. There was the pout of a spoiled child in her face. “I don’t see what business it is of yours—” she began.
“Don’t be foolish,” Pryde interposed, patting her hand. “Do you suppose I don’t know that you must have pretty things, and that life is expensive? Grace insists upon giving you her savings because she knows that, too, and because she doesn’t want you to accept presents from anyone else until your husband comes home. Don’t interrupt me, there’s a good girl! You’ll find I’m not such a disagreeable old thing, after all. Now listen. Be good-natured. I’ve come into money. It’s no use to me. Take it from me instead of Grace. Send back to Grace what you’ve had from her lately. I’ll make it up and more, and, upon my honour, I ask no more from you than your silence. You can look upon me, if you will, as your brother. That’s exactly what I want to be, you know.”
She played for a moment thoughtfully with a corner of her napkin. Then she looked up at him pleadingly. “Do you know you are a very disappointing person?” she sighed. “I was beginning to think you could be so nice, and brothers—”
“You see, Miss Stella,” he reminded her quietly, “I am in love with Grace.”
She rose abruptly and dropped her veil. “Very well,” she said, “drive me home, and I will give you a list of the money I have had from Grace lately, and tell you what she has promised to send me. I shall have to say that I have had a cheque from Harry. He has promised me one for a long time.”
They passed out together to the street. Pryde was so well satisfied with his success that he never glanced to the right or to the left. They entered his car and were driven off, and Grace, who had stopped short upon the pavement, clutching her parcel of manuscript under her arm, looked at them with eyes filled almost with horror and a queer pain at her heart. Perhaps that moment was a revelation to her. She looked around a little wildly. Suddenly she felt an arm through hers.
“Feeling faint, miss?” a policeman asked quickly. “Hold up a bit, and I’ll get an ambulance.”
For a moment the shops and the people seemed all mixed up together. She was conscious of a deadly sickness, a curious ringing in her ears. Then she set her teeth firmly. To faint, here in Piccadilly! Such a thing was not possible!
“I will take a taxi,” she told the policeman.
He called one, and helped her in. Already the faintness was passing. She went about her business.</story>