<story title="THE HOUSE OF REST" date="1913">
IN many respects Grace’s was an ideal holiday. She spent her mornings sailing with a boatman from the village, her afternoons sometimes in the same way, at other times wandering about the great wilderness of sea-riven marshland. At nights she read for a time by her little oil lamp, and went to bed with the darkness. Beyond the making of tea and coffee, she attempted little cooking. Once or twice she had visited the village stores. For the most part she lived on the cold things she had brought down with her. The position she had chosen for her tent was entirely isolated save for the presence, about fifty yards off, of a family caravan. On the afternoon after the dispatch of her letter to Pryde, she returned from a sail to find the beach deserted. The caravan was drawn up at the end of the sandy road, on the point of departure. She went over to the little man and woman, with whom she had been in the habit of exchanging ordinary civilities.
“Why, I thought you were here for a fortnight Mr. Brown!” she exclaimed.
Mr. Brown, who was a small man of gingery complexion, seemed somewhat confused. “Had to change our plans,” he explained. “The fact is, the agent was down this morning. Pitched into us like anything; turned us off, in fact.”
Grace looked at him, perplexed. “But I thought you said that we had a perfect right here,” she declared. “You were so strong upon that.”
Mr. Brown was decidedly not at his ease. “So we have,” he protested. “I didn’t want to get into a row, though. We are going to move on a mile or two. Sorry to leave you, young lady. If you took my advice,” he added deliberately, “I am not at all sure that you wouldn’t come with us.”
“Same here!” his wife declared, a little tartly. “It’s no sort of life, this camping out, for young women alone!”
“I am very much obliged to you,” Grace said, “but it isn’t quite so easy for me to move on as it is for you. However, I dare say I shall be all right. I wish you’d told me that you were going, though.”
“As a matter of fact,” the little man confessed slowly, “I had no intention of moving. The agent made it worth my while. He seemed to want to get rid of me.”
“So that was it,” Grace remarked quietly. “Thank you very much for telling me that. Good-bye, and good luck to you!”
The caravan rolled off. Grace went back to her boatman.
“Nichols,” she said, “I am left all alone here, you see; not that I mind it very much, but I don’t quite understand why those people have been turned off.”
The boatman looked across the marshes towards the spot where from those tall chimneys the smoke was curling up to the sky. “Nor me neither, miss,” he declared. “I don’t understand half the things that go on here nowadays. He’s a real queer fellow is our new landlord.”
“His agent has given those people money to go,” Grace continued thoughtfully.
Nichols shook his head. He was an elderly man, strong and stalwart, a widower for many years. “I don’t know, miss,” he said, “but what, if I were you, I’d come to the village and find a room somewhere. I ain’t no confidence in those people up yonder. It’s a queer lot they are altogether, to my way of thinking.”
Grace smiled. “Well,” she said, “couldn’t we, just for this once, compromise? It’s hot enough to sleep out of doors, isn’t it? Don’t you think you could sleep in the shed over there for one night, and then we could get up at sunrise and go out after the crab-pots?”
“I’m willing, miss,” he agreed. “I’ll get home and have my bit of supper, and sail the old boat down with the ebb tide. I’ll be here long before it’s dark.”
Grace thanked him, and a few minutes later he disappeared down the broad waterway, his brown sails catching the last gleams of sunlight as he passed away. Grace turned and, entering her tent, prepared her evening meal. Afterwards she sat outside and watched the shadows deepen, watched the lights fade from violet into grey, and from grey into obscurity. By and by a few little yellow lanterns from the tops of the fishing-boats dotted the horizon. Then all of a sudden, the small steam yacht, which she had missed all day, came round the point, a blaze of lights, and steamed up to its anchorage. She lay a little way back from her tent, upon a sandy mound, watching. The motor pinnace had been lowered from the yacht, and soon she could hear the beating of its engine rapidly approaching. The landing-place was close to where she was. The boat was driven on to the beach and two men descended. One was Dewis; the other a man who was wrapped from head to foot in a light dust-coat, with a cap pulled over his eyes. They were scarcely more than thirty feet from her, but she herself was unseen. She noticed that Dewis’s eyes were fixed all the time upon her tent.
“It seems a lonely spot,” she heard the unknown man say, as he stood for a moment looking around him.
“I here is no other place quite like it,” Dewis replied. “No one who lives here ever notices anything, ever thinks anything. Yet it is not so far out of the world that the comings and goings of any unknown person attract too much attention.”
The new-comer pointed to the tent.
“Trippers,” Dewis explained. “Quite harmless. I wouldn’t send for the motor. You won’t mind walking? It’s only a mile.”
They passed away, side by side. Grace caught a glimpse of the stranger’s face—a queer, heavily-lined face, with deep-set eyes which even in that solitude seemed to flash from side to side. He walked, too, like one in fear. She watched them disappear—a man in danger, surely! A man, too, who reminded her of someone. She sat puzzling until the darkness came, and with it Nichols. He bade her the shortest of good nights and rolled himself up in a deserted shed at the head of the beach.
“I’ll give you a shout at sunrise, miss,” he said. “I’m wishful to be off as soon after four as suits you. It’s a matter of the tide, you see.”
“I’ll be ready,” she promised him.
Punctually at four o’clock Nichols awakened her. For three hours they sailed about in the bay. They saw the sun rise, saw it pierce the faint white mists which hung around the chimneys of the Old House. Afterwards she slept through the latter part of the morning. Nichols returned about three o’clock in the afternoon.
“Shall I be up again to-night, miss?”
“If you don’t mind,” she replied.
“I’ll come out on the ebb,” he promised.
She sat watching him disappear. Then she brought out some books. She had scarcely settled down, however, before she heard the sound of a horse’s galloping hoofs. It was Dewis who came, riding along the narrow dyke path with loose rein and the careless seat of a man utterly reckless. He pulled up close to her, the sand flying into the air from his horse’s hoofs.
“Are you in a hurry?” she asked.
He pointed seaward, and she saw that the little white steam yacht, which had been missing again all day, had once more rounded the point and was coming to an anchor. “I saw her from my windows,” he said. “I scarcely expected her back so soon.”
“Is she bringing another guest?” Grace inquired.
Dewis did not answer. He was looking through his field-glasses at the boat which was being lowered. Suddenly a little exclamation broke from his lips. The hand which held the glasses shook.
“Yes,” he replied quietly, “it is another guest.”
“Your house must be getting quite interesting,” she sighed.
He turned towards her irresolutely. “Look here,” he said, “let me give you some good advice.”
He pointed to the road which led to the village. “You’ve been here long enough,” he declared. “I have taken a queer, foolish fancy to you, and I’m not the sort of person who should have any part in your life. Get away this afternoon. Get away before to-night.”
Grace shook her head quite decidedly. “You have a queer way of showing your preferences,” she laughed.
“What way would you prefer?”
“I think,” she replied, “for one thing, that you might offer to show me over your house. You have made me horribly curious.”
Something which had lightened his face a few minutes before had passed away. He leaned towards her. He was not quite so pleasant to look upon. “Come,” he said, “I will do better than ask you to tea. Do you see that boat?”
She followed his forefinger. The little launch from the yacht was fast approaching the beach.
“A lady!” she exclaimed.
Dewis nodded. “A chaperon for you,” he remarked. “Will you dine with me to-night?”
She hesitated. “I have no evening frock.”
“Come as you please,” he answered. “You may find it amusing. Afterwards—”
“Yes, I’ll come,” she decided. “I can’t keep away; I’m too curious.”
“Be there at eight o’clock,” he directed. “Do you mind going into your tent now? You will meet my latest guest to-night.”
Grace strolled away, and Dewis stepped down to the landing-place. He assisted the lady to alight and walked slowly with her up the shingles. She held her skirts in both hands, and she talked volubly in French. Grace watched them disappear. Then she pulled out her steamer trunk and began to examine its contents.
THE approach to the Old House was of the simplest possible description. There was no lodge nor any gate. The drive wound its way through a pleasant meadow, rich in buttercups and celandines. There was a small brook crossed by a little bridge, and several cows were standing about, almost knee-deep in the long grass. A ring fence alone separated the meadows from the lawns of the house. There was an iron gate across the drive, propped hospitably open. Before the entrance was a circular patch of lawn, and under the cedar trees were several basket-chairs. Grace made her way to the front and rang the bell. The door itself stood wide open, affording a view of a large white stone hall, cool and perfumed with flowers. For some few seconds after she had pulled the bell nothing happened. The silence of the place, its very homeliness, seemed to Grace somehow mysterious. She was filled with a curious sense of coming adventure. Then, through a swing door opposite to her came a dark, sallow-faced servant. He spoke with a strong French accent.
“Will you come into the drawing-room, madame!” he said.
She followed him across the hall and into a drawing-room furnished with faded Victorian furniture, a drawing-room with a faint, unused perfume of lavender, and darkened by closely-drawn blinds. Almost as she entered Dewis came in through the french windows.
“This is charming of you,” he said cordially. “I am so glad that you summoned up your courage.”
“I am afraid it didn’t need much summoning up,” she replied. “You know how curious I was to see your house.”
He led the way out into the hall. “You shall see as much as you like of it after dinner,” he declared. “At present doesn’t your fancy turn to one of those chairs under the cedar tree?”
They stepped out together and strolled across the lawn. He leaned towards her.
“Didn’t you get my message?” he asked quickly. “I sent a boy on a pony with a note an hour ago.”
She shook her head. “I saw him in the distance, then he took the wrong path across the marshes, and he had to turn towards Cley. There was a strong tide to-night. We came down the creek, and Nichols sailed me up just to the other side of the road. What was your message?”
“I told you not to come,” Dewis replied quietly. “It is too late now. We must make the best of it. There is just a little trouble among my guests, but it is nothing which should affect you.”
“I am sorry,” she said simply.
“By the by,” he continued, “I can’t very well introduce you as my little friend in the cotton frock, can I?”
“You may introduce me as Miss Smith,” she told him demurely.
She did not offer to go away. Two men were strolling across the lawn towards them. Dewis stretched out his hand.
“Miss Smith,” he said, “please let me introduce two of my guests, Mr. Barton and Mr. Leonard Wright.”
They were both men of quite unremarkable appearance. Wright was young, of athletic build, and sunburned. The other man was taller and older. They were both clean shaven. They greeted Grace pleasantly, and talked for a few moments quite naturally.
“Dewis doesn’t often spoil us in this way, Miss Smith,” Wright declared. “A parson once a week and the doctor every now and then are the only visitors we’ve seen anything of. Do you live near here?”
“Only for a time,” Grace replied. “I am really here for a holiday.”
A third man came striding across from the house—a large, ungainly man, with a brown beard recently grown and as yet unsightly, high cheekbones, and gaunt face. He had the air of a man furiously angry. When he saw Grace, however, he seemed to check something which he had been about to say. Dewis looked at him quite coolly.
“Allison,” he said, “if anything is wrong, speak to me about it afterwards, please. We are honoured with a lady guest to-night. Miss Smith let me present Mr. Allison. He looks very angry now but he is really quite a good-natured person.”
The man bowed civilly enough to Grace, but he tried to draw Dewis on one side. Dewis, however only laughed and pointed to the servant who was standing at the edge of the lawn.
“Dinner is served,” he announced. “Come. We will not wait for Madame Floquet. It was her special request. Miss Smith, will you permit me?”
She took his arm. They crossed the lawn, which felt like velvet beneath their feet. The birds were singing all around them; the air was sweet with the perfume of roses and heliotrope. Grace looked around her and looked down the drive towards the road, towards the marshland, shimmering still in the sunlight. Before her was the interior of the house, with its cool restfulness, but also its vague air of mystery.
“I think,” she said, “that I shall run away. I am frightened of your guests.”
He only drew her arm a little closer through his, and they passed on. “Too late, my dear young lady,” he insisted. “I also had a presentiment, but it has passed.”
He led the way to a small dining-room at the back of the house. Dinner was somewhat elaborately laid at a round table in the middle of the apartment. There were a great many bottles of champagne upon the mahogany sideboard. Grace noticed, as she took her place between her host and Wright, that there was one vacant seat at the table.
“Madame Floquet will be down in a few moments, beyond a doubt,” Dewis remarked. “I am sure you will all be interested to meet her.”
Allison leaned across the table. He still had the appearance of a man nursing a grievance. “Look here, Dewis,” he said, “you’re avoiding the question all the time, and I am sorry to have to refer to the matter before Miss Smith, but, all the same, when you accept another guest here, we have a right to know who she is. Who is Madame Floquet?”
Dewis looked across the table at his questioner. “My dear fellow,” he answered coolly, “within a few moments you will see her. You will then know. Why should I not enjoy my little surprise?”
Wright leaned across to Grace. “Queer lot, aren’t we, Miss Smith?” he remarked. “But, then, you must remember we are all half invalids. I’ve had a shocking nervous breakdown, and Allison has been ordered complete rest. We didn’t anticipate any women here permanently. We are all a little down upon Dewis about it.”
Dewis filled his glass with champagne. “My dear guests,” he said, “Madame Floquet will be here in a moment to speak for herself. All I can tell you is that under no possible circumstances could I have refused her visit.”
Almost as he spoke the door was opened. A woman, dressed in a black evening gown, with a collarette of pearls around her neck, came slowly into the room. She was very fair, she had strange eyes, and a mouth curiously firm. It parted in a smile, however, as she paused with her fingers upon the back of a chair and glanced around.
“Ah!” she declared, “it is like old times indeed. I congratulate you, my dear Mr. Dewis, upon this meeting of old friends. It is indeed delightful.”
There was a moment’s silence. The eyes of every one present were fixed upon the new-comer. Then Grace was conscious of something strange in the face of every man there. Allison seemed struck dumb with terror. Wright was sitting back in his chair, his head thrown back, his mouth open. Barton was clutching the tablecloth.
Allison was the first to find his voice. “My God!” he muttered. “It’s Martha!”
Even Grace shivered at something in the man’s tone. They all turned now towards Dewis. Their faces were full of fierce questioning. He sat quite still with his wine-glass in his hand.
“My friends,” he said, “you disgust me. Such fear is imbecile. The lady who takes her place among us to-night, and whose name Allison had better have kept to himself, has a perfect right here. She has as much right to the shelter of this house as any of you. Your lack of restraint is appalling. Must I remind you that we have a stranger among us?”
Allison pointed suddenly to Grace. “My God!” he cried. “Why not put an advertisement in the local paper, give a garden-party, write to—”
“Hush!” Dewis interrupted sternly. “I will answer for this young lady’s discretion. I will answer for it that she does not gossip. As for the rest, the Iris has steam up in the harbour, the cars are in the garage. If anyone has a fancy that they will be more comfortable elsewhere, let him try it. Luigi, you may serve the fish.”
The butler, who had been standing motionless by the sideboard, touched a bell by his side. A couple of men entered at once. Dinner was served almost in silence. Conversation, such as it was, was furnished entirely by Dewis, Grace, and Leonard Wright. The meal was about half-way through when the door opened and a tall, dark man, also dressed in the livery of a butler, entered. He carried a note in his hand, and he came towards Dewis.
“If you will be so good, sir,” he whispered, “as to read this at once.”
Dewis nodded and turned to Grace. “You will excuse me?”
“Certainly!”
Dewis tore it open. There seemed to be only a few lines, but he read them twice over. Then he crumpled up the sheet of paper in his hand. He turned slowly towards Grace.
“What is it, Dewis?” Allison asked hoarsely.
Dewis seemed to collect himself with an effort. “It is nothing,” he answered quietly.
Allison leaned suddenly across the table. He gripped his host’s wrist and tore open his fingers, snatching the crumpled sheet of paper away.
“Look here,” he said, “if it’s nothing, I am not doing any harm. Keep off, Dewis.”
There was a moment’s intense silence. Everyone had stopped eating and drinking. They were all looking at Allison. He was breathing quickly.
“Look here,” he cried, “these are the few lines which Dewis has just read and told us are nothing! It is a message from Paul there. Listen:
“‘The young lady whom you have brought here this evening is a Miss Grace Burton. She is a well-known private detective, and a partner with a man named Pryde, whose name you must know. Paul.’”
Allison looked up. There was a curious stillness in the room as the crumpled piece of paper slipped from his fingers.
“I did not communicate this message to you all,” Dewis said firmly, “because I am convinced that Paul is entirely mistaken. Miss Smith is simply taking a summer holiday here from her office in the City. I will answer for her myself.”
“Please do not do that, Mr. Dewis,” Grace interrupted. “Your butler has told the truth. I am Grace Burton. I did not come into this neighbourhood to spy upon you. I came here for a holiday. All the same, I am Grace Burton, and Stephen Pryde is my partner.”
There was a little sound like a low sob, a murmur of indrawn breaths. They were leaning towards her, and in their faces was something which reminded her of a pack of wolves.
“Most admirable host!” Allison hissed. “You open your doors to one for whom every corner of Europe is being ransacked. You destroy the security of us all, and now you entertain a young lady detective. What do you suppose we mean to do?”
Dewis did not at once reply. Madame Floquet drained her glass and spoke. To Grace’s amazement she spoke in a key altogether lower than before. It was the voice of a man.
“As for me,” she declared, “I have as much right here as any of you. I paid ten thousand francs to our host, and I had the right to security whenever I chose to avail myself of it. I was hard pressed in Vienna, but in London I stayed three days, and there was not a sign. I was at Cowes for two days, and again there was no sign. For a week I was on the sea before I changed into our host’s yacht in Lowestoft Harbour. There isn’t a soul who knows I am in the country. But”—she paused. They all followed the direction of her gesture; they all looked towards Grace—“that woman,” she said, “must not leave this house. I have no more confidence in Dewis. We must see to that ourselves.”
PRYDE and Mr. Simmons descended a little stiffly from the dog-cart which had brought them from Wells.
“Another mile or two in that,” Pryde muttered.
“Don’t suggest such a thing—” Mr. Simmons interrupted. “Let’s have a drink, and then what about walking down to the shore?”
“I am afraid it’s too late to-night,” Pryde decided regretfully. “Miss Burton is just a little difficult sometimes. I am afraid she won’t altogether appreciate our coming down like this.”
“Couldn’t help it when I got your note,” Inspector Simmons declared. “There has been a rumour or two about this place before. If I could have got hold of the chief, I’d have brought a search-warrant with me. No getting a word in edgeways with him, though, at the shop this morning. There’s a report that Martha is in England.”
“Who is she?” Pryde asked, as they made their way into the little smoking-room.
“Martha is really a man called Jean Martier,” Simmons explained. “He seems to have started as an apache in Paris. You remember the motor-car robberies there? Anyway, he got away from France with about a million francs, and was supposed to have murdered something like seven or eight gendarmes. Half the time he lived disguised as a woman. The police lost sight of him for a year. Then he turned up suddenly again in Paris, and robbed a bank messenger, whom he shot dead, of a hundred thousand francs. A few days ago we heard that he was in England—had come straight through from Vienna.”
Pryde nodded. “France is the country for real criminals,” he said. “Let’s walk down the street and get a breath of the sea, anyway.”
They strolled down to the little harbour and leaned against the rails, looking out across the marshland. It was late, and the place was almost deserted. One fisherman, who had just secured his boat, was making his way up the stone steps. Pryde spoke to him.
“Do you know,” he inquired, “if there are any people camping out on the sands there?”
Nichols eyed his questioner for a moment. “There’s only one young lady that I know of,” he replied slowly.
“Whereabouts is her tent?” Pryde asked.
“Do you happen to be a friend of hers?”
“I am a very great friend,” Pryde assured his questioner eagerly. “Why?”
“If you do be a very great friend of hers,” Nichols continued, “then I’m just as well pleased that you happened to ask me that question just now, for I’m not feeling as comfortable as I should like about the young lady.”
“What do you mean?” Pryde demanded, in a strained voice.
“To-night,” Nichols explained, “she got me to sail her up the creek to the Old House. She went there to dinner. She’s in these parts all alone like, and she asked me to call for her at half-past nine and bring her back. Up I went, and rang at the front-door bell. A man-servant came out. I asked for the young lady. He went away. When he came back he said, ‘The young lady is not returning to-night.’ I was taken all aback, and I started to come away, but before I’d gone more than a step or two I thought it over, and it seemed to me there must be some mistake, so I went back again. ‘Here,’ I said to the young man, ‘you tell the young lady that Matthew Nichols is here. I’ve got the boat top o’ creek, and we shall just get back.’ Blowed if he didn’t slam the door in my face! I rang again, and they wouldn’t answer the bell, so I come away. But I don’t like it.”
Pryde suddenly gripped at the railing. “My God!” he muttered. “Show us the way to the house, there’s a good fellow.”
“I don’t know as you’ll do much good there,” Nichols volunteered. “Howsomever, there the house stands, a hundred yards or so straight down the road, and you’ll see the turning to the left. The house is in the dip. She was a nice-spoken young lady, and I can’t see her staying alone up there, not anyhow. Will I come along, sir?”
Pryde was already well on his way, and Inspector Simmons by his side. Nichols plodded along, behind. They said very little to one another until they reached the entrance. Then they paused.
“Look here, Sir Stephen,” Simmons said, “I think we are both of one mind about this matter. We’ve no search-warrant, but I have my credentials in my pocket. I propose that we decline to move until we are allowed to see her.”
“The only credentials I’ve got,” Pryde answered, “are my revolver and my fist, but they don’t get me out of that house as long as I’ve consciousness.”
They had already turned into the avenue. Suddenly Simmons gripped his companion’s arm. He was looking over his right shoulder.
“Stop!” he cried softly. “What’s that?”
Along the straight road came two blazing lights—a motor-car, driven apparently at a furious speed. Behind it, another; some distance away, a third.
“Wait a moment,” Simmons whispered. “There’s something wrong here!”
They moved slowly back towards the road. Almost as soon as they had reached it, they saw the lights rounding the corner. Three motor-cars were pulled up within fifty yards of them. Several dark forms began to steal along the road.
“By Jove! they’re getting over the wall!” Pryde exclaimed. “They’re making for the house. Come on!”
They ran down the road. Two men were standing there, giving orders. Inspector Simmons gave a little ejaculation of surprise and touched his hat.
“Sir Philip!”
A grey-headed man turned suddenly round. “Simmons!” he cried. “Are you on it, too?”
“I am on nothing particular, sir,” Inspector Simmons replied, “except that there’s a young lady friend of Sir Stephen Pryde’s and mine has written about a suspicious house here, and we’ve just learned that she’s been detained there to-night. Sir Stephen here, sir, and myself were on the way up to see what we could do about it when we saw your lights.”
“You’d better come along now with us, then. Jump in.”
The four men got into one of the cars. It started at once and turned up the avenue.
“We may be in for a very bad time,” Sir Philip remarked gravely. “Are either of you armed?”
“I am, sir,” Pryde replied. “What is it?”
“The greatest scoundrel in Europe has been traced to that house,” Sir Philip answered. “I believe that it has been a hiding-place for criminals for some time.”
Pryde groaned. “And she’s been there alone all the evening!” he muttered.
“We only had our information a few hours ago,” the chief of the police continued. “I brought these men down in a special train from King’s Cross, and we’ve motored from Lynn. Here we are.”
An inspector crept out of the shadows.
“Are all your men posted?” the chief asked him.
“The house is completely surrounded, sir,” was the reply. “Shall I ring?”
Sir Philip nodded. The inspector pulled the bell. The summons was answered almost at once.
“Will you tell your master,” Sir Philip said, “that some gentlemen wish to speak to him?”
The butler’s expression of surprise seemed genuine enough. “Certainly, sir,” he replied, throwing open the door. “Will you take seats for a moment?”
He crossed the hall and disappeared into one of the back rooms. In a few seconds he reappeared, followed by Dewis. The latter had changed his dress-coat for a black velvet smoking-jacket, and was smoking a cigarette. He seemed perfectly at his ease.
“What can I do for you, gentlemen?” he asked.
The chief of the police answered him. “Mr. Dewis,” he announced, “we are here in the name of the law. Knowingly or unknowingly, we believe that you have under this roof certain persons for whose arrests we hold warrants. It is our duty to search your house, and I call upon you to render us any assistance we may require.”
Dewis knocked the ash from his cigarette. He seemed still perfectly cool. “My guests are in the dining-room,” he replied. “You can see them for yourselves. All I can say is that they came to me with excellent references.”
They crossed the hall, Dewis leading the way. He turned the handle of the dining-room door; it was locked. The chief looked around.
“You must have that door opened at once,” he ordered.
They were suddenly conscious of a sound of light approaching footsteps. Pryde gave a little cry. It was Grace, unruffled and quite calm, who was crossing the hall. She held a key in her hand.
“I believe,” she said, “that there is a reward of a thousand pounds for the arrest of Jean Martier. You will find him in that room.” She handed the key to Sir Philip.
“Be careful, sir,” one of the inspectors begged.
The door was already thrown open. They all crowded in. There were four people seated around the dining-table, and two vacant places. Of the four people, Barton was leaning with his arms upon the table and his head hidden; Madame Floquet was sitting back in her chair, her hand upon the carved arms, her lips parted, her eyes fixed upon the opposite wall; Leonard Wright was leaning over the side of his chair—his eyes were closed as though he had fallen asleep; the other man had his back to them, and they could only see that he was motionless. They were like figures in some strange and tragical tableau, only their immovability was unnatural. Not one of them turned his head or looked up at the opening of the door.
“My God, they’re dead!” Inspector Simmons muttered.
Even Grace’s composure almost gave way. Pryde led her out into the hall.
“They had a sealed decanter brought in,” she faltered, “just as Mr. Dewis hurried me away. They said they were going to drink to the House of Rest.”
“What about you?” Pryde demanded.
“Paul is here,” she whispered—“Paul, the head porter at Delacher’s. He is a sort of major-domo here. He saw me and told Mr. Dewis who I was. Mr. Dewis tried to keep it from the others, but they found out. For a moment I thought they were all going to fall upon both of us. Then the telephone began to ring. A man arrived on a motor-bicycle. They heard that you were on your way from Lynn. They seemed to forget all about me. Mr. Dewis took me by the arm and hurried me into the drawing-room. He pointed to the window. I could have escaped then, but I waited. Presently I stole out. There was no one in the hall. Mr. Dewis was in the library; I could see him through the open door, burning papers. I found the key in the door there and locked them in. Then you came.”
Sir Philip came out from the dining-room. He sat down for a moment on the settee by Grace’s side. He, too, seemed suffering from shock.
“I have never seen anything like it,” he muttered. “They are all dead—Martier, Cummins, Mayo, and the man who was wanted for that Hanger Hill murder. You’ve had a lucky escape, young lady.”
She pointed across the hall to where Dewis was standing, a plain-clothes policeman on either side of him.
“He saved me,” she remarked tersely.
“We’ll remember that,” Sir Philip promised.</story>