<story title="A HOLIDAY BY THE SEA" date="1913">
GRACE BURTON was sitting on a grassy knoll of sand, looking out at the sea. She wore a soft shirt and collar, a flowing tie, no hat, and a white cotton skirt. Her cheeks had lost their pallor, she was even a little sunburned. Near her sat a young man, tall and slim, with sallow face and dreamy eyes.
“No,” Grace decided, “I cannot see the slightest reason why I should tell you my name.”
“It is usual,” he pleaded. “How am I to address you? Shall I say ‘fair stranger,’ or ‘little girl in the cotton skirt’? Or am I to call you after tha colour of your eyes?”
“It is so like Margate,” she murmured.
He shivered. “I have never been there,” he declared. “As a matter of fact, I don’t believe you have.”
“There is no doubt at all,” Grace continued, “that we are much too promiscuous nowadays. Why, because you hit me in the middle of the back with your golf-ball and had the nerve to come and apologise, should I allow you to speak to me next time we meet?”
Her companion extended his hands. “It is the effect of the sun and the sea and the empty places. One has no time here to be small. You are a young lady of quiet but engaging appearance, apparently enjoying a fortnight’s holiday. I am a somewhat older person, a resident, a householder, an individual of proved respectability. I am also your landlord for those few yards of sand on which you have pitched your tent. I frankly confess that it gives me pleasure to talk and be listened to. Why should I not indulge myself?”
“At my expense!”
“Some day,” he remarked, “your tongue will get you into trouble.”
“I am not at all sure,” she retorted, “that your manners won’t place you in a similar predicament.”
He sighed. “I take off my hat when I see you and when I leave. I walk on the outside. I observe all the small courtesies of life. I even offer you my card.”
She took it from him and read it out: “?‘Mr. Roland Dewis.’ Quite a nice name,” she admitted. “I should not, however,” she went on, “call it an informing card. No club, no address, no anything.”
He smiled. “The dawn of curiosity! A hopeful sign! I belong to the Savage Club, which, as you may have heard, is in itself a distinction. I have written verses and published them. I was brought up as a physician, I have ended by becoming a crank.”
“And what is your peculiar mania?” she asked, with some show of interest.
“Collecting weird guests,” he told her. “Some day you ought to come and have tea with me and see them.”
“Thank you,” she replied; “I would rather not.”
“They are paying guests, you know,” he went on. “That old house was left to me unexpectedly, and I couldn’t possibly have kept it on without a little assistance.”
“Do you read poetry to them or give them medicine?” Grace inquired.
Her companion coughed. “I am no great believer in physic,” he asserted. “At the same time, I do give them a certain amount of medical attention.”
Grace looked over her shoulder across a stretch of marshland, across a field, to where the ground suddenly took a dip, from the midst of which rose several tall Elizabethan chimneys.
“I shouldn’t have thought your house was suitable for invalids,” she remarked. “It is very picturesque, but it seems so unhealthful down in that hole.”
“Quite a mistake,” he assured her. “The air here is the finest in the world.”
“What class of patient do you take?” Grace asked.
Her companion stroked his chin for a moment. He had a long, rather thin face, deep-set eyes a little too close together, and a powerful chin. “Well,” he said, “you needn’t be afraid if you meet any of them about, but they are all more or less mad. Not mad enough for an asylum, you know, or that sort of thing, but they are queer in their ways. I have a method of my own for dealing with those people. I give them lectures twice a day, and see that they read only the books I provide for them. I also make use to some slight extent of my suggestive powers. Have you read anything about telepathy and psychic phenomena?”
“On the whole,” Grace remarked, “I think I am glad that I decided not to come and have tea with you.”
He glanced along the beach towards a tent. “The invitation has been given,” he reminded her. “I presume it never occurred to you that a return of civility might be in order?”
“Certainly not,” Grace replied. “I have only one cup and saucer.”
“I might,” he suggested, “bring my own mug.”
“Don’t be silly,” Grace said. “I suppose you think I am the most unconventional person breathing to come down here and set up a tent alone on a waste piece of beach. I shouldn’t have dared it but for those people in the caravan.”
“You seem to me,” he remarked, “to be a young lady very capable of taking care of yourself.”
“I am,” she assured him.
“Have you any profession?”
“Yes,” she replied.
“And what is it?”
“Minding my own business,” she answered promptly.
He looked away from her and watched a fishing-boat come nearer.
“After all,” he decided, “I am not sure that I like you.”
“If you do not,” she said, “you are very much in the minority. The real reason I came away was to escape from my admirers.”
“Let us talk seriously,” he begged.
She looked at him blankly.
“I should never have associated frivolity with our conversation,” she declared.
“You are rather good at phrases,” he went on. “I am not. I find you, all the same, rather interesting—shall I say stimulating? Would you like to come for a ride in my motor-car?”
“With you?”
“Certainly with me!”
“No,” she answered. “In any case, I don’t like motor-cars. Down here they would remind me of London, and taxicabs, and machinery, and noises. The only movement I can take any interest in is the rolling of those small sailing-boats.”
“Well, let’s go for a sail, then,” he suggested.
“I sail every morning myself,” she told him. “I have my own trusted fisherman here, whom I have tried to drown in sixteen different ways, and who takes the greatest interest in the operation. I couldn’t think of another passenger.”
She looked across the marshes once more towards that dip in the land and the chimneys from which the smoke was stealing upward. “I am not sure,” she said, “but I think that if you were to press me to inspect your house, I should come. It looks rather fascinating.”
For a moment he did not reply. She was watching him, carelessly enough to all appearances, yet closely.
“Why, of course,” he declared, “any afternoon you like—this moment, if you will.”
“Thanks, no!” she answered, getting up and shaking out her skirts. “You are too impetuous. I am going to make my own tea now. Run along, please. I have had enough of you for to-day.”
Her voice, as usual, carried conviction. She walked away lightly but briskly. The man stood and looked after her for several moments, a puzzled frown upon his face. Then he turned and walked slowly along the path which led across the marshes, a path which in places became the raised top of a dyke, on either side of which the tide flowed in. Grace went to her little tent, put her kettle on the stove, and sat down to write to Pryde.
PRYDE came in with a gun under his arm from a morning’s rabbit-shooting. He had taken possession of his new quarters—a pleasant old house in one of the quietest of Norfolk villages, with a man and his wife to look after him, a charming old-world garden to sit about in, and a few hundred acres of rough shooting at his door. He would have been perfectly contented but for one thing. . . .
The letter was lying ready for him on a round table set in the middle of his hall. He bore it off at once into his little study and opened it eagerly:
“My Dear Partner,—
“Don’t start when you see the village from which I write. I had no idea, when I arranged to come here, that your new home was also in Norfolk. However, since it is so, I am not so sure that it may not be a good thing. For, listen: here, in the remotest of the little fishing hamlets on the very edge of the sea, living in a tent, absolutely alone, I rather believe that I can see an adventure looming. I was driven here from Wells in a farmer’s cart by a loquacious native. As we neared the village, he pointed out to me the queerest old Elizabethan house, set down almost in a pit. The place had been empty for fifteen years, he told me, but had recently been occupied by a gentleman from London, a gentleman whom he variously described as a doctor, a literary person, and a millionaire. According to my informant, this person, whose name is Roland Dewis, makes a speciality of collecting queer guests. I haven’t seen any of them, but I have met the proprietor. I got in the way of his golf-ball when he was practising iron shots a few days ago, and, although he did not know it, I encouraged him to talk to me. I think the real reason why I am a little interested in his mysterious household is the recollection of the last time I saw Mr. Roland Dewis. He stood then in the dock at the Old Bailey, and was sentenced to seven years’ penal servitude for blackmailing. His hair has gone grey since then, he has changed his name and cultivated a limp, he wears an eyeglass, and he is clean shaven. He would not be easily recognised. I happen to have a good memory, though, and I am not mistaken. However, that isn’t all I am going to tell you, although it is the most important part of it. His guests, who are supposed to be here for their health, never seem to move out of the grounds. He has a motor-pinnace and a very small steam yacht lying out in the harbour here, ready for sea. He has also a ninety horse-power six-cylinder motor-car. Somehow or other the appurtenances of his place do not seem to me in the least like the appurtenances of a sort of hospital. What do you think?
“I can see you sitting down and writing that you are on your way here. You please won’t do anything of the sort. For one thing, you might be recognised; and another thing, there is no place for you to stay; and a third thing, the two of us together might easily suggest our identity to any observant person. There is a telegraph office close here, and I have hired a bicycle. Of course you may say that it is all rather idiotic; that I am so keen on work that I am imagining all sorts of things which don’t exist. Perhaps so. Anyway, I thought I would tell you as much as I have told you, so that you will understand if I do send for you.
“I am enjoying my simple life immensely, and am feeling very much better. I heard from Stella yesterday. She and her husband are at the Italian lakes, and, I believe, perfectly happy. You read in the papers, of course, that Jerome was found dead in his rooms with a revolver by his side. He was mad about Netta Fawsitt, but the way he killed Bartlett was brutal.
“I hope you, too, are enjoying your country life. You can write me to the post office here, if you like. At present I have not made up my mind when to return to London, but I will let you know.—
“Sincerely yours,
“Grace Burton.”
Pryde read this letter through, word by word. Then he folded it up, placed it in his pocket, made a hasty luncheon, and caught the afternoon train to London.</story>