<story title="THE MAN WITHOUT A TIE" date="1929">
SIR JASPER SLANE welcomed his unusual I visitor courteously but without effusion. Not even to himself would he have admitted the interest and curiosity, tinctured perhaps with a faint sense of uneasiness, inspired by her unexpected presence. She stretched herself out in the chair which he had indicated—a strange figure of a woman, as thin as fleshless bones could make her, with an almost haggard face, destitute of color, pallid lips, a complexion which scorned cosmetics, great glorious eyes of a deep soft hazel shade, seldom open at their widest. Underneath her hat one could guess at her closely cropped auburn hair. Her black clothes had an air of decent but selected shabbiness. "You wonder what I want with you, Sir Jasper Slane?" she inquired. "As yet," he assured her, "I have not asked myself the question. I could imagine half a dozen things. Your visit is certainly a surprise. The last I heard of you, you were in Paris."
"I've been in Algiers since then," she confided. "Tell me, does it amuse you to talk to me, or would you like me to state my business, and go?"
"I shouldn't say that 'amuse' was quite the word," he rejoined, "but a visit from Lady Eve Tregarthen is naturally interesting. You could tell me many things concerning which I am curious."
"If I chose."
"Precisely. I have an idea that you have come to tell me what it pleases you to tell, and not me to hear." She yawned, drew from a shabby bag a crushed up paper packet of cigarettes, and lit one from a worn lighter. "What made you find your way to Raoul Guisol's studio the other night?" she asked. "You weren't exactly in the picture, you know."
"Well, Guisol invited me, for one thing," he replied. "I once bought a picture from him, and he has never forgotten it. I am not sure whether he ever sold another until he had his great success in last year's Academy."
"Oh, yes, he has sold a few," she confided, knocking the ash from her cigarette. "Not many though. So you came because Raoul asked you? Any other reason?"
He smiled across the table at her.
"Isn't this rather a quaint gesture of yours, this visit?" he suggested. "I am not gifted with superhuman intelligence, I know, but on the other hand your attitude seems to me a little ingenuous. And, by-the-by," he added, reaching for a box of cigarettes, "I wonder whether you'd mind—? The smell of that leaf you are smoking is atrocious." She pinched it out with reluctance, and helped herself from his box. "A vitiated taste, I suppose," she admitted. "I like strong Algerian tobacco. Perhaps you're right about the other matter. It's being a little sanguine, isn't it, to expect you to confide your secrets to me? Raoul asked you there, I know, because he doesn't understand; but you weren't exactly a welcome guest to everyone. I dare say you realized that."
"Simply to this extent," he acknowledged. "There was one man there, only recently out of prison—a bosom friend of Guisol's he used to be in the old Paris days—who probably wasn't too pleased to see me. My presence even may have brought him a certain amount of uneasiness."
"Quite possibly," she agreed. "Especially as he is looking out for work, I believe."
"Then I should advise him to start in a new line. Such amazing skill as his can be put to many better uses."
"Can it?" she queried indifferently. "I've always understood that forging bank notes was a fairly profitable occupation."
"So it is for someone," Slane assented, "but you know as well as I do that it is very seldom the artist who reaps the reward. Take your friend Lansen, for instance. They say that when he was caught seven years ago he had turned out over a million pounds' worth of counterfeit notes. He hadn't enough money to pay his lawyer."
"I didn't come here to talk about Lansen. You haven't any absinthe, I suppose?" she asked, looking hungrily around. "Nothing of the sort," he assured her. "A cocktail, if you don't mind waiting, or a whisky-and-soda at once if you prefer it."
"Whisky in a wine-glass, without soda," she begged. "I take my spirits as I take life—neat." He rose and helped her from the sideboard. When he resumed his seat, he leaned a little further toward her.
"Lady Eve," he proposed, "we can save one another time. If you are here to gather from me just how much the police know about Lansen's future plans, just how much immediate danger he is in, you are wasting your time. I have never discussed Lansen with anyone in authority, and my connection with Scotland Yard is entirely unofficial and occasional. I simply remember that Paul Lansen used to be a friend of yours in the Paris days, and if you are still interested in him you can give him the best possible advice to quit. He's too clever for the police ever to lose sight of, and they won't."
She pinched her cigarette into the ash tray, and lit another. "This is very interesting," she observed, "but, as I told you before, I didn't come here to talk to you about Paul Lansen. I came on other business."
He looked at her questioningly, but without speech. She moved uneasily in her chair. Her expression had become tense. "Have you ever heard," she asked, "that I was a friend of ^the man you've all been after for so long—The Lady Bird?"
"I've heard it hinted at," he admitted. "I've never believed it."
"Well, it's true!"
"I'm sorry," he murmured. "You needn't be," she went on defiantly. "My people threw me out long ago. In my way I'm a derelict. I don't care. Life's too short to waste it with people you've nothing in common with. I can't help how I'm made. Crime attracts me—crime that isn't ugly crime —crime as the Lady Bird understands it—crime that stakes its life against the Other man's. "You ought to understand. What are you an amateur policeman for? Just because you love the throb of excitement, the real passion there is in crime which you can't get out of anything else—the throb, man against man, brains against brains, courage against courage—and the triumph afterwards. You sit at home and think about it all, and read the papers, about the clues, possible arrests, the moments of hideous apprehension which the hunted man feels when a stranger looks as though he were going to tap him upon the shoulder." He shook his head. "Lady Eve," he remonstrated, "that's all very well, but not even you could find sport in cold-blooded murder."
"The Lady Bird never killed anyone in his life," she retorted. Slane raised his eyebrows. "There was Doublay, the jeweler, that Police Sergeant at Ludgate, Marks, the bank cashier—"
"Idiot!" she interrupted. "Do you think the Lady Bird is that sort of a person? He is a director of crime, not a criminal. I'll tell you something. You may believe it or you mayn't. I don't believe he's ever carried a gun in his life."
"I am afraid if ever the police find him it will be a little difficult for him to prove that," Slane remarked incredulously. "You can find him if you want to," she said. He leaned a little closer. "You are going to give him away?"
"To you—not to the police."
"What's the trouble?"
"Better not ask," was the curt reply. "I've stood dozens of other women; I've had to. This time there's been something else. You can have the Lady Bird if you want him. I've done with him." He felt her watching him, felt her eyes seeking to read the thoughts at the back of his head. He exercised to the full his capacity for facial self-control. "This is rather a serious business, Lady Eve," he ventured. She blew out a cloud of tobacco smoke. "Do you think I don't know it? Do you think the memory of this afternoon won't torture me for years to come? if I live, which I rather doubt. I don't care. If I could have put a dagger into his throat last night I would have done it. Mind you, I don't think you'll ever take him. You're much more likely to be driven to the cemetery, whilst he's off on the Train Bleu to Monte Carlo. That's not my business though. He'll be at 18a, Willow Walk, Bermondsey, from seven o'clock tonight until midnight."
"What about the reward?" Slane enquired. "There's five thousand pounds in different amounts, you know."
"I don't want the damned money," the girl scoffed. "I want a front seat in the court, and to watch him in the dock." Slane took a long, meditative sip of his whisky-and-soda. "Willow Walk, Bermondsey," he repeated, "between seven and twelve tonight. It's a baddish neighborhood."
"You didn't expect to find him in Pall Mall, did you?" she rejoined sarcastically. "And how do you feel about it," he asked, looking at her with a new interest in his eyes, "now that you've given him away?"
"He's jolly well got what he deserved," was the hard reply. "Shall you be there?"
She laughed in derision.
"I shall not. I shall be lying low in Chelsea for a few days, and^in danger of my life—if I cared much about that— there. However, it doesn't really matter. Go quietly, mind. Leave your taxicab at the corner. Bring as many people as you want to help you if you must, but put them out of sight. You know the Lady Bird. He doesn't leave much to chance." Slane smiled. "I can quite well believe that," he agreed. "You'll go?" she asked, almost fervently. He smiled once more. This time there was a glint of humor in his eyes. "Lady Eve," he confided, "if I go to 18a, Willow Walk, Bermondsey, tonight, I shall do so in an armored car, with the loop-holes closed, and an armed patrol around me. I know very well that the first man to step from security on to the path leading to the front door—of what number did you say?—18a Willow Walk—would be biting the ground before his finger pressed the bell. We are. all fools more or less, but there are not many of us who would be fools enough to believe that you were giving the Lady Bird away." She looked at him steadily, fiercely, but without speech. "I'll admit," Slane went on, "that I knew nothing of your friendship with the Lady Bird, but I did know that for some reason or other I have become obnoxious to him. I can guess why. You see, it was I who recognized Sebastian Ostello, who, Scotland Yard knew quite well, had come over to join the Lady Bird. Back he had to go to Hungary. Then, there's another reason. I've taken to showing myself a good deal more about the West End lately, because it's there I fancy that some day or other we shall find your friend, whose career I have rather a fancy to bring to an end.
"The Lady Bird doesn't like that. He knows very well that I can go where the police can't. There were rumors that something was to happen at the Mulliner party, the other night. I was there. Very annoying for your Lady Bird, without a doubt, to be kept away from that studio party. I think the Lady Bird had his eye upon Lansen. Very paying proposition to get hold of a man like Lansen. I quite understand. I am a nuisance, Lady Eve, and I must be removed, but, believe me, 18a Willow Walk will see nothing of me tonight."
She drained her glass of whisky, and rose.
"I told him it wouldn't be a damned bit of good," she said defiantly. "They none of them appreciate you. Au revoir, dear Sir Jasper. A trip abroad wouldn't be bad for your health, just now."
"And a voyage round the world for you," he rejoined sternly. "I knew your father, Lady Eve. Do you never think of your people when you mix yourself up with this desperate gang of thieves and outlaws? I am not at all sure that I shouldn't be doing you a good turn if I locked the door, and telephoned to my friend Stimpson, at Scotland Yard."
She laughed in his face insolently, challengingly, with a touch of feminine provocativeness.
"Brave men don't turn on envoys," she reminded him.
"But you," he retorted, "were a false envoy. You didn't even come bringing honorable proposals."
She laughed again, her hand upon the door knob, his finger upon the bell.
And yet I shall go," she said, "and you won't attempt to stop me." She threw him a kiss—and went.
An hour later the girl in the shabby black frock and with the wonderful eyes finished her story, leaned back in a chaise longue piled with cushions, and lit one of her evil-smelling cigarettes. Of the two men who had been listening, one—Colonel Charles Donville, D.S.O., tall, with regular but insignificant features, blue eyes, a figure something like a tailor's dummy, and a general appearance, which had earned for him throughout a certain section of London society the nickname of the "Beauty Boy," stood with his hands in his pockets, looking moodily out of the window across the park. The other— Bob Frayson—a pleasant-faced, soldierly looking man, approaching middle age, indulged in a little grimace and threw himself into an easy-chair. It was a very delightfully furnished room upon the top floor of a famous block of flats, and nowhere near Bermondsey.
"Nothing doing then with our friend Slane?" Donville remarked gloomily.
"Seems not," Frayson agreed. "I never thought he'd fall for that Bermondsey stunt."
The girl looked at them through her half-closed eyes.
"My own opinion is," she drawled, "that you'd better leave Jasper Slane alone. He's the sort of man who might hit back—and hard." Donville swung round, and frowned. 'Why the hell can't a man like Jasper Slane mind his own business?" he demanded. "What the devil does he want to turn himself into a man hunter for? Sport, I suppose he calls it. Well, it's up to us to show him all the sport he wants."
"You're quite right, Charlie," Frayson assented. "Fortunately we are on to him now, but that doesn't alter the fact that he is interfering with a good many of our little schemes. I thought we'd got Lansen safely tucked away, but down he comes to that party and spots him at once. Then the Mulliner jewels would have been ours last week, but just as the supreme moment arrived, there was Slane looking quizzically around the room. They were there ready to tumble into our hands but for him."
"You don't imagine that he suspects either of us?" Donville cogitated. "Of course he doesn't, but then you see we can't be continually at a house where something may be doing without his tumbling to it in the long run. I bet he'll remember everyone who was at the Minghamptons' the time you got away with the pendant. We were at the Tindale Sharpes', too. There he was. I bet he hasn't forgotten that either. Now there's this little affair coming on at Grantham House. He'll probably be there. I have a sort of an idea he's working on the principle of elimination. A dangerous fellow, Slane." Donville nodded. "Slane must go," he decided quietly. "We can't afford risks."
"How are you going to get rid of him?" the girl demanded, turning over in her chaise longue. "You won't get him down to Willow Walk in Bermondsey. He isn't a bit like the fly buzzing round the fringe of the spider's parlor." Donville smiled. "When a man has really been in our way," he observed, "we haven't often failed to get rid of him."
"Give him a chance," the girl begged. "Try a word or two of warning."
"No objection to that," Donville assented. "All the same," Frayson observed, "I don't fancy you'll find Slane a man to be intimidated."
"We'll give him a chance before we pass his name in," was Donville's decision.
* * * * *
STIMPSON lunched with Slane one morning that week by special invitation, in the Strangers' room at the Lavender Club. Toward the end of the meal, Slane made a confession. "I think you know. Stimpson, by this time." he said, "that I am not a nervous person." The detective looked at him shrewdly. "What's coming?" he inquired. "I don't know," his host declared. "You or I, or both of us together, have got to find the Lady Bird, and break up the gang, and do it quickly, too, or they'll get me."
"Anything fresh?" Slane shrugged his shoulders. He laid a half sheet of note paper upon the table. "I don't as a rule," he confided, "take any notice of anonymous letters. But I think this one is genuine."
There were only a few lines roughly printed:
Slane, my friend, I'm warning yon to mind your own business. Play golf, shoot and hunt. Those are your natural amusements. Stick to them. Make up your mind quickly. After a day or two London won't be a healthy spot for you.
"Yes, I see the point," Stimpson admitted, holding the epistle up to the light. "Expensive stationery—club paper, I should think."
Slane nodded. "I should say," he announced, "that that is a Service Club note paper— either the Rag or the In and Out. Well, I got that note five days ago, and naturally I took no notice of it. Now I'll tell you another thing. By good luck, I'm on the committee here, and I noticed a new waiter on Wednesday at the table where I always lunch. I inquired about him. The steward showed me his references, which were excellent, but I saw he was always particularly anxious to serve me, and I felt a little suspicious about him. I took up his references more closely, and found that they were forged. The day I did so, he disappeared. "I fancy that he was only waiting to shake down here, and, in the language of our friends and criminals, I should have had mine, and no one would have had the least idea where the trouble came from. That isn't all though. Only this morning, I was crossing the road near my house—walking round to the garage—and a taxicab which had seemed to be just driving along at a moderate pace, suddenly accelerated, and came straight for me. I just managed to do a forward spring which saved me. The man was out of sight, of course, before I could even get his number."
Stimpson was looking grave.
"What about a month's holiday on the Continent?" he suggested. "The Lady Bird will keep away."
Slane shook his head.
"The fellows are too clever to run risks for nothing," he declared. "It's clear that I'm badly in their way at the present moment. They've got some scheme pending that they think I shall be more likely to get hold of than your men, and I'm not going away. You can make up your mind about that."
Luncheon progressed to the coffee and liqueur stage. Then, with the door closed, Slane leaned across the table.
"Stimpson," he asked, "is there such a thing as speaking in confidence to the police?"
"Not at the Yard," was the cautious admission. "Here—man to man—I should say there was."
"I have told you about the waiter, and I have told you about the taxi, and I have shown you the anonymous letter," Slane went on. "Now, I am going to tell you what happened the other day, and what has really given me a line on the Lady Bird. You have heard of Lady Eve Tregarthen, I suppose?" Stimpson's eyes flashed for a moment. "Anything against her?"
"Nothing definite," the detective acknowledged, "but she's in our books. She seems to have a most singular penchant for associating with criminals. One of these daring young women of the upper classes, I gather, who have exhausted all the ordinary pleasures of life, and hunt anywhere for new sensations." Slane nodded. "She is a friend of the Lady Bird, Stimpson," he confided. "How do you know that?"
"Because she came to me as an envoy from him. She first of all commenced by admitting her friendship with him. Then she tried to make me believe that they had quarreled finally and desperately. She was out for revenge. I was to make my way down to Willow Walk, Bermondsey, and invite him to take a little stroll up with me to Scotland Yard. It was all very ingenuous, and amateurish, but it was proof, at any rate, that Lady Eve knows who the Lady Bird is. The trouble of it is that she's with different men every night, and the nights one doesn't see her about she's probably with others. To single out the Lady Bird isn't easy, especially as it is quite possible they aren't seen in public together at all. However, the main point remains. She knows who he is."
"Why didn't you let me know at once?" Stimpson remonstrated. "Willow Walk was a trap for you, without a doubt, and I don't suppose the Lady Bird himself was ever there, but, with a well-organized raid, we might have found something." Slane shook his head. "I wasn't professional enough," he admitted. "I refused the invitation, and told the lady my reasons."
"A pity!" the detective murmured. "I don't see that Lady Eve's visit to you helps us much. But," he added, "this might." He opened his pocket-book, and drew from it a small square of tracing paper, on which was marked in thin, purple lines, the plan of a part of the ground floor of a house. He stretched it flat upon the tablecloth.
"We had a man brought in last night," Stimpson explained, "on practically a faked-up charge, because we are sure that he is in touch with the Lady Bird's gang. He was caught trying to swallow this piece of paper. You see the 'G. H.' in the corner? Well, you know the reason the Lady Bird has been so successful with these jewel robberies at evening parties has been his intimate knowledge of all the internal geography of the houses where the raids have taken place. We immediately got a copy of the Morning Post, and looked through the list of forthcoming entertainments. There is to be a reception at Grantham House—'G.H.', you see—tomorrow night. It is to be one of the most brilliant affairs of the season. "I spent most of yesterday afternoon there myself, with this plan. It corresponds exactly with the ground floor. This square here, you see, is the ladies' downstairs cloak room. You enter it from the main hall up this passage. You can leave it, curiously enough, by three different ways. That passage there branches off into two others, one leading to an area, and the other through a private gate to the courtyard. Then, there is also a staircase, very seldom used, leading up to the main reception room in the tapestried picture gallery."
"A find!" Slane murmured. "It is indeed. You know whose house it is, of course?"
"Yes," Slane assented?"the Duchess of Drury's. Thank goodness, I am going to the party." The detective folded up the plan, and put it in his pocket. "You'd have to be in it, of course," he grumbled, "but, for heaven's sake, take care of yourself for the next few hours. It looks to me as if they wanted to get rid of you before then."
"Not a chance," Slane promised. "I shall be there." London's most exclusive and most expensive dinner club was more than usually crowded on the night of the Grantham House Reception, but a table was found at once for such a distinguished trio as Lady Tregarthen with her two companions. Colonel Donville, "The Beauty Boy," and Major Frayson. The latter took up the menu, whilst Donville glanced through the wine list. The girl looked around with her usual air of tired insolence, waving her hand now and then to an acquaintance. Suddenly she became aware of Slane, seated by her side.
"You see," he confided, in a low tone, "I have resisted the temptation of a visit to Willow Walk, Bermondsey."
"You were more wise than usual," she answered, with faint irony. "You know Major Frayson and Colonel Donville?"
"I have that pleasure." Slane admitted as he nodded to each in turn.
"You two idle soldier-lads," she went on, "don't realize what a famous man Sir Jasper is. You have many professions, haven't you, Sir Jasper? Half-a-dozen at least, I believe."
"We all know that Sir Jasper is a famous criminologist," Donville acknowledged. "I read an article of yours lately, Sir Jasper, in one of the London papers, upon clues—how to t r a c k down a criminal, and that sort of thing. Very interesting it was, too."
"I remember it," Slane murmured. "Nowadays, however, criminology is losing its interest. It has become too scientific."
" I t hasn't become scientific enough for them to lay their hands upon the man they call the Lady Bird," Donville observed. "They say that he can almost write to the police and tell them when he's going to attempt a coup, and he brings it off just the same."
"His time will come all right," Slane predicted, as he sipped his wine thoughtfully. Acquaintances came up and surrounded the trio, and Slane, who was supping with a sister who rarely visited London, devoted himself to conversation with her. A few moments later, when they were dancing, she looked across the room at their neighbors.
"Rather an unusual young woman that," she commented. "Who did you say she was?"
"Lady Eve Tregarthen," Slane confided. "She's quite a well-known sculptress— has a studio down in Chelsea, and one in Paris, too."
"And the men? They don't seem like artists."
"They're soldiers, both of them. Donville was in the Coldstreams. 'The Beauty Boy' they call him. Frayson was a flying man."
"A quaint trio! Altogether too advanced for my country tastes," Slane's sister decided. The music of the orchestra grew louder and louder, the popping of corks was insistent, the murmur of conversation a rapidly increasing crescendo of sound. Slane and his sister left comparatively early. As they rose to their feet, Donville leaned a little forward in his place.
"See you at Grantham House later on. Sir Jasper?" he inquired.
"I may look in," Slane observed carelessly. "I avoid that sort of thing as a rule, but it might amuse my sister as she isn't often in town." . . .
"Are they great friends of yours?" the latter asked, as they crossed the floor.
"No, I shouldn't say that they were. Why?"
She shrugged her shoulders.
"Nothing particular. Only when I glanced back to wave to Alice they were all three looking after you, and whispering. I expect it's a foolish idea of mine, but I should have said that for some reason or other you weren't exactly popular with them." He led her down the passage towards the limousine which was waiting. "For a country woman, Ann," he complimented her, "your powers of observation are almost miraculous." The reconstruction of that world-famous sixty-seconds' raid at Grantham House was difficult, almost impossible in detail until the time came for the trial of the two marauders. Upstairs and from the passageway there was a not the slightest indication of any untoward incident, nor were the festivities for one moment interrupted until the whole affair was over. The one attendant in the ladies' cloak room, who was above suspicion of any sort of complicity in t h e proceedings, was the first to give a reasonably lucid account of what had happened. " I was just leaning forward fastening the clasp of a lady's necklace," she recounted, "when it was snatched from my hand, and every light in the room went out. Then, all at once, I began to hear screams on every side of me. "Someone tried the handle of the door to get out, and found that it was locked, and although I couldn't see anything distinctly, I realized to my surprise t h at there were men in the room. A door leading out from the back which was always kept locked, had been opened, and from the passageway there was a faint stream of light. There were at least four of the thieves in the room, and they were helping themselves to all the jewelry they could find as fast as they could. One of them was talking all the time. He promised that no one should be h u r t unless she resisted or called for help. " I t was all over before one could properly understand what was happening. They knew at once outside that something was wrong, and it couldn't have been more than a minute before they forced the door. No one was hurt, but three ladies had fainted. The two back doors were closed and locked, the robbers had disappeared, and on the outside there wasn't a brooch or a necklace left." . . . Slane knew a little more about it when he plunged from his place of concealment in search of the man whose capture he had set his mind upon. The darkness was intense, but he had marked down the whereabouts of the quiet, soft voice snapping out orders every few seconds. For a moment he had him by the throat, but, taken by surprise though he was, the marauder was too swift and subtle. A single dive, and he had disappeared towards the interior of the room. Pursuit would have been ridiculous. A single flash of a torch, the spit of a bullet, and the thing would have been ended.
Another idea came to Slane, and he crept on tiptoe through an unnoticed door at the far end of the room, which had been marked down in the small plan, and some curtains, into the magnificent picture gallery at the farther end of which his host and hostess were receiving. Four men who were lounging around in apparently purposeless fashion, stiffened to attention at his coming, but recognized him as he stepped out into the light. Stimpson, a little tense, leaned inquiringly forward. A close observer might have noticed that the detective's hand was holding something in his jacket pocket, and that his companions had not entirely the air of guests in a great house. "They're at it," Slane announced quickly. "I nearly got our man red-handed. He slipped away, but, look!" Slane disclosed what he held in his hand, and Stimpson smiled a hard, queer smile. "They must come up," Slane went on. "The doors we marked A and B out into the courtyard are both locked again, and anyone who passed through them is under arrest by this time. The plan of the principals, or of the two principals, was evidently to get up here by the short cut, and establish their alibi. There is nothing else for them to do."
Stimpson suddenly held up his hand in —warning. The curtain concealing the recess shivered just a little. On the other side, the Beauty Boy, with his faithful friend, had paused for a second before entering the reception room. Both were a little breathless. "We'll cut in on the line," Donville whispered. "It's often done. Just a word or two with her Grace, and a drink at the bar. What's the matter. Bob? You're shaking."
"I don't know," the other replied. "Everything seemed to go like clockwork, and yet I fancied that there was someone else in the room besides the women."
"You're quite right," Donville confided grimly. "There was one, at any rate. He grabbed me, but I got away. Hush! There's someone coming up the stairs. Draw the curtain back, Frayson; you're nearest." Frayson obeyed, and the two men stepped right into the room. Upon the threshold they paused—paused to face the crisis of their lives—inevitable, irresistible. The bravest murderer in the world must have felt like that when leaning over the side of the steamer he saw the boat containing the Custom Officers waved back, and the police barge approaching. It was the end. Fate, in a stern little semi-circle—not a smile upon one of those five fixed faces. Not even the light of triumph in Slane's earnest eyes.
Donville dropped his eye-glass, and stood rigid. The fingers of his left hand strayed up to his collar. Slane nodded, and held out a crumpled white cravat. "Too loosely tied, Donville," he remarked. "It came off in my hand." The other four men had drawn a little closer. Donville shrugged his shoulders as he held out his wrists. "It seems ungracious to leave without paying our respects to our host and hostess," he regretted, "but I see that my shirt is a little crumpled—and perhaps, without a tie—you won't mind the back way, Inspector."</story>