<story title="MARIOTE'S HOUR OF AGONY" date="1929">
INSPECTOR STIMPSON to see you, sir."
Sir Jasper Slane removed the pipe from his mouth, dropped the Times, and looked over his shoulder toward the door. It seemed an odd time for Stimpson to have traveled up to Hampstead—only a little after half past nine—and an odd morning for anyone to be about except of necessity, for the window-panes were streaming with rain. Slane scented urgency.
"Show him in, Parkins," he enjoined. The butler, in discreet silence, ushered in this unexpected visitor, and retired, closing the door behind him. Slane half rose to his feet, and pointed to a chair. "Good morning, Stimpson," he greeted him. "You're by way of being an early bird, aren't you?"
"I am indeed, Sir Jasper, and a wet one."
Slane waved his hand toward the table. "Had breakfast?"
"Two hours ago, thanks. Sorry to disturb you so early, but I looked in to ask you if by any chance you know anyone of the name of Frostland?"
"Never heard the name in my life," was the confident reply. "Sit down and help yourself to a cigarette, and tell me why you should think that I had."
The Inspector accepted a chair, but declined the cigarette.
"Well, the fact of the matter is," he confided, "that the Frostlands—Mr. and Mrs., I understand—live only a hundred yards or so from here, and your card is adorning their hall table." Slane shook his head.
"Never heard of the people, Stimpson," he reiterated. "I haven't the faintest idea how they got hold of a visiting card of mine."
The detective scratched his chin thoughtfully.
"You don't call on newcomers to the neighborhood, or anything of that sort?" he ventured.
"Don't be an idiot," was the good-natured retort. "As you know very well, I'm a bachelor, Stimpson. It isn't likely I should waste my time going round paying visits upon people who come to live in Hampstead."
"If you care to put on your coat and hat," Stimpson suggested, "I might be able to show you something rather interesting. It doesn't matter about the weather. I have a taxicab outside."
"I'm with you," Slane assented promptly, rising to his feet. "I was just wondering how to get through the morning. I'm an all-weather golfer, but this is a little too thick even for me."
He rang for his hat and mackintosh, and in less than five minutes the taxicab deposited the two men before a small house at the end of a side street in the immediate neighborhood. The front door stood ajar. The Inspector pushed it open and then closed it behind them. An agitated charlady was seated upon the stairs, shivering.
"No one been here?" Stimpson inquired curtly.
"No one been near the place, sir," the woman replied, "and the sooner I can get out of it the better I'll be pleased. Mysteries is the things I 'ate."
The detective unlocked the door of the sitting-room. Before he opened it, however, he turned to his companion.
"Better take a brace, sir," he advised. "It's an ugly sight."
Slane nodded, but, prepared though he was, an exclamation of horror escaped from his lips as the two men entered.
"Nice sort of hullabaloo here last night," Stimpson continued. "I haven't touched anything more than I could help, but you can see for yourself that it was more than an ordinary roughhouse. What do you think about it. Sir Jasper?"
It was several moments before Slane replied. The sitting-room had all the appearance of having been the scene of a cataclysmic and bloodthirsty struggle. The table was overturned, and there were broken glasses and stains upon the floor. There were other stains, too, of a more terrifying character—a smear of blood upon the back of an easy-chair, a little pool upon the carpet, big drops across the strip of linoleum. Most of the ornaments were smashed, and there was scarcely a chair left whole or standing upright. Across the gilt-framed mirror was a great crack, and even here there were more spots of congealed blood.
"Whom did you find here?" Slane asked.
"Nobody."
Slane turned incredulously toward i his companion.
"Do you mean to say you found a room like this and no one lying hurt?"
"Not a soul."
"Who's upstairs?"
"Nobody."
"Kitchen?"
"Not a soul."
Slane became every second more alert. This somewhat tawdry apartment, which had seemed like the ordinary shambles of a sordid fight, had suddenly changed its character. An empty house! The thing was unbelievable!
"Tell me what you know about it," he begged.
"It seems that the house is in the occupation of a Mr. and Mrs. Frostland," Stimpson recounted. "Frostland is a commercial traveler, it appears, and is away somewhere in the west of England at the present moment. Mrs. Frostland, according to the charwoman, announced her intention of spending last night with her sister, and went off at four o'clock. The charwoman locked up at five, and left behind her what she is sure was an empty house. This morning she arrives, unlocks the kitchen door, lights a fire, puts a kettle on, comes in here to do her morning's cleaning, and—"
"I 'ates mysteries," broke in a mournful voice from the door. "I come in and down in a 'eap I went. I just shuts the door, and runs down the avenue until I finds a cop. I ain't coming any further inside this room. Blood—that's what them stains are. I knows. I've 'ad to wash 'em out before now. I wouldn't be the one to tidy this up—not if you was to offer me anything on earth."
"It appears that the policeman she found came and had a look," Stimpson continued, "and telephoned at once to the Yard. I came along in a taxi, and as soon as I realized that something serious must have happened, I did as I often do when I don't know anything about the people of the house—glanced through their card plate, and found yours the top one. I knew you lived just round the corner, so that's as far as I've gone for the present."
"I never heard the name in my life, nor can I imagine how these people got hold of my card," Slane insisted. "Have you done anything about Mrs. Frostland?"
"I've sent a policeman to fetch her from the address at Highgate the charwoman gave me. I don't know that I'm in a hurry to see her just yet, though. What do you make of the room. Sir Jasper?"
"There's been a fierce fight here, that's certain," Slane pronounced meditatively. "One man probably got the best of it, for you can see that the furniture down this end is much more knocked about than at the other. What puzzles me, though, is how two men who had fought as desperately as they must have done were both able to get away afterward, and what they were doing here at all if Mrs. Frostland was away for the night, and Frostland was in the west of England."
The detective made no definite reply. His interest just then seemed centered upon local objects.
"There's no sign of any weapon," he pointed out, "and curiously enough no blood stains or anything of that sort in the hall or on the handle of the door, or on the little tiled walk down to the gate. I've tied the handle of the door up for fingerprints, of course, but I had a good look at it first."
Slane moved toward the window.
"It's easy enough to step out from here," he reflected.
"That's what they did, I expect," the other agreed. "I've had a casual look around, but the rain has played the dickens with the whole place."
"I wish you'd open the window," Slane begged.
The detective put on a pair of gloves, and pushed up the sash. Slane stepped out into the garden, absolutely oblivious of the driving rain. He searched the gravel path and little box border closely, without any particular result. The front gate was barely half a dozen yards away. Slane traveled the distance backward and forward several times.
"I'm afraid the rains have queered us," he said. "I can't see a thing here worth taking serious notice of."
Which was perhaps not quite honest of Sir Jasper Slane.
The policeman who had departed in search of Mrs. Frostland returned alone. He shook his head in response to Stimpson's quick glance of inquiry.
"I found Burton Street all right, sir," he announced, "but there's no one of the name of Martin living in Number Twelve. Two maiden ladies there, name of Sinclair. They haven't got a sister—never heard of the name of Frostland. I got a directory at the pub and looked it through. No one named Martin in the street. I made a few inquiries here and there whilst I was about it. No one had ever heard of the name of Frostland."
Stimpson called out to the charwoman, who made her unwilling appearance from the back regions.
"I'm off 'ome," she declared. "That's what I'm doing. I ain't going to tidy up that mess. I wasn't hired to do jobs like that. And who's going to pay me my five shillings, that's what I should like to know? And there's four shillings owing from yesterday."
"I dare say we may be able to arrange that for you," Stimpson promised soothingly. "Look here, Mrs.—"
"Mrs. Oates, my name is," the lady vouchsafed. "'Arriet Oates."
"Very well, Mrs. Oates. This young man has been up to No. 12 Burton Street. There's no one of the name of Martin living there. No one of the name of Martin in the whole street, as a matter of fact. You are sure that you had the name and address right?"
"Sure as I'm standing 'ere, sir," the woman answered confidently. "Mrs. Frostland—a nice madam she is—came down the stairs carrying a small bag. 'Mrs. Oates,' she said, 'I'm kind of lonely, my 'usband being away, and I'm going to spend the night with my sister. If so be that there's a telegraph comes, if you'll bring it up there'll be half a crown extra for you. The address is No. 12 Burton Street, and the name's Martin.'"
"She didn't write it down?" the detective inquired.
"She did not. Not having a defective memory, I didn't ask her so to do."
"Then she gave you a wrong address."
"Nothing wouldn't surprise me about that lady," Mrs. Oates declared. "She probably wanted to make extra sure that I'd believe the story about her sister, knowing well enough that no telegraph was likely to come. I've my own ideas about that lady, and her goings on, though. I'd lay a quart of gin she knows more about Piccadilly than 'Ighgate."
"Tell us what you know about these people," Stimpson suggested pleasantly. "You see, the whole affair is very mysterious, isn't it, Mrs. Oates? Empty house—master away—mistress gone by four o'clock—you leave at five—you arrive this morning as usual—and then this! Someone was here last night after you both left—two people, in fact."
"Don't speak of it, sir," the charlady begged, turning her head away from the room. "It turns me stummick right over—the sight of blood does. As for Mrs. Frostland, I can't bear her, and never could. There never was a yeller-haired woman that took my fancy. Her 'usband's a nice, quiet bit of a gentleman— generally spent Fridays until Mondays here—goes traveling the rest of the week."
"Do you know whom he travels for, Mrs. Oates? The name of the firm, I mean?"
"I do not," the lady replied. "You could put all that I know about the two of them on the top of a sixpence and not notice it. Fond of keeping their mouths shut, they were. One month they've been here, and nine shillings there's owing to me, at this present."
The detective produced a pound note.
"Well, that's that, Mrs. Oates," he said, "and a trifle over for your information. Now tell me about Mrs. Frostland's habits when her husband was away."
"How do you suppose I knows anything about them," the woman retorted. "Five o'clock was my hour for going, and at five o'clock I went."
"Who prepared the evening meal?"
"She went out to restaurants most generally, I should say. It was very seldom I had anything to clear up in the way of cooking in the morning. If you was to see all the dresses in her wardrobe you'd think she was flaunting about all the time."
"Any signs of visitors when you cleaned the room out in the mornings?"
"Sometimes an odd tumbler or two," Mrs. Oates acknowledged, "but what had been drunk out of them I couldn't say, except by the smell I should think it was whisky. Mrs. Frostland kept what she had to drink in that cupboard, and close enough she was about it, too. Locked, you'll find it, as it always 'as been since I've been 'ere."
Stimpson's fingers played with the fastening of the tall, deal cupboard built out from the wall. He produced a little instrument from his pocket and turned it deftly. The cupboard door stood ajar. For the first time, Mrs. Oates seemed to realize that she was in the presence of a master of his craft.
"That's a trick I'd like to learn," she admitted frankly. "Ain't you going to look inside, guv'nor?"
Stimpson's behavior was certainly singular. He suddenly thrust his shoulder against the cupboard door, slammed it to, and once more, with the help of his little instrument, apparently secured the lock. Then he stood away—breathless.
"Anything wrong there, Inspector?" Slane demanded.
The former opened his lips and closed them again. His trembling fingers had evidently missed the catch of the lock. Even whilst they stood there, with their eyes riveted upon the cupboard, the door creaked and swung open, and the body of a man, limp, lifeless, and horrible—the body of a man who had been battered to death— fell soggily onto the carpet. The woman's shrieks filled the room. Then she covered her head with her coarse, sackcloth apron, and rushed away, still crying out at the top of her voice. Stimpson caught at the edge of the table, and turned away his head. Slane alone preserved enough presence of mind to snatch at the tablecloth which lay upon the floor, and to fling it over the prostrate form.
* * * * *
AN HOUR or so later, in Slane's sitting-room, the two men found themselves able to compare notes and to talk once more coherently.
"It's a murder right enough," Stimpson declared, "and a brutal one at that. I'll have to get going, Sir Jasper. It's Mrs. Frostland I want. Who was she, I wonder?"
"Who is Frostland, for that matter?" Slane queried.
"We've got a line upon him all right," the detective confided. "A quiet little man of about forty-two years of age— reticent but amiable—employed by Pfeiffer and Company, Leather Merchants in Bermondsey, and now traveling on their account. They'll be ringing me up here directly, and we shall find out what they have to say about him. But Mrs. Frostland—no one seems to know a thing about her."
Slane produced a packet of visiting cards from his pocket.
"Perhaps I may be able to help you so far as regards the lady," he remarked. "Before we left I was rather curious about my card having been found there, and I looked through the plate. There were the cards of at least a dozen people I know well, and every one of them —curiously enough—a member of my club. What's happened, you can see, is simple enough. The woman had been either in service or secretary or something to one of my friends, and when she left she brought the cards away with her—to give her a social start, perhaps, going into a new neighborhood."
"How are these cards going to help?" the detective asked.
"I'll tell you. Curiously enough, there's just one man who is the intimate friend of all these people and whose card isn't there. That looks to me as though it might have been from his house that they came. I'm going to ring him up as soon as you've heard from your people in Bermondsey."
"Great idea!" Stimpson murmured.
"What links the thing up further still," Slane continued gravely, "is that the murdered man, whom I was able to identify, was almost an employee—a business employee—of the man I'm thinking about."
The telephone rang. Stimpson took up the receiver.
"Is that Pfeiffer and Company?" he inquired. . . . "Good. I'm ringing up from Scotland Yard. I want to ask about an employee of yours—a man named Frostland."
There was a moment's silence, during which someone was apparently speaking fluently from the other end. Stimpson listened with interest.
"Glad to hear such a good account of him," he said presently. "Can you tell me where he is now? . . . Bristol? . . . Just telephoned to you, has he? Doing good business, eh? That's excellent. You don't happen to know anything about his wife or family? . . . No? Well, I'm afraid you'll have to telephone to him to come straight back home. We were called to his house this morning and found that someone had apparently met with a bad accident there. Mr. Frostland had better come back at once, and if you would like fuller particulars, I can give them to you, if you call and ask for me—Detective Inspector Stimpson—at Scotland Yard any time after two o'clock this afternoon. Good-by, and thanks."
"Frostland seems to have been out of it all right," the detective reflected, as he hung up the receiver. "Mrs. Frostland, on the other hand—the disappearing lady—seems to have been very much in it. Unless the charlady's made a mistake, she gave a deliberately wrong address. What about this gentleman friend of yours, sir?"
"I'll ring him up directly," Slane promised, drawing the telephone book toward him. "There was no mystery about the dead man's identity. He was Maurice Klein right enough. I recognized him as soon as I could bring myself to look at him. Well, Maurice Klein was engaged in the box office of the Majestic Theater, which belongs to the man from whose house I think Mrs. Frostland must have come."
"Majestic Theater!" Stimpson exclaimed. "You mean Charles Mariote?"
Slane nodded. He shut up the telephone book, and threw it away.
"I don't think this is quite a case for the telephone," he decided. "I'll go and see Mariote, and meet you in the Strangers' Room in the Lavender Club, at one o'clock."
The detective nodded.
"I feel more like tackling the job now," he confided. "I shall spend the rest of the morning at Elm Villa."
Slane was admitted without delay into the very handsome house in Porchester Terrace owned by Charles Mariote. "The master is out, sir," the butler announced. "But Mrs. Mariote is in."
Slane followed the man into a very luxurious apartment, and settled himself in an easy-chair. In a very few minutes, Mrs. Mariote entered. She was a very beautiful woman, but this morning she was scarcely looking at her best.
"Sir Jasper!" she exclaimed, holding out her hand. "What an unexpected visitor at this hour of the morning!"
Slane wasted no time on preliminaries.
"Maurice Klein," he said, "has been found dead, evidently murdered, in a house not far from mine."
She looked at him in frank horror.
"Dead!" she repeated. "Murdered! Maurice Klein! Where was he found?"
"In a house in Hampstead belonging to a Mr. and Mrs. Frostland. Mr. Frostland is apparently a commercial traveler away on his affairs. Mrs. Frostland, to whom he was recently married, seems to have made a rather strange disappearance. I came to ask you whether by chance you have had anyone in your employ lately, or any protegee of any sort, who might have been known to Klein and who has been recently married to this man Frostland?"
Those wonderful eyes, which photographers had immortalized, and which descriptive writers had eulogized for many years, seemed to become set, almost glazed.
"Why do you ask me that question?" she demanded.
"Because of a rather singular coincidence," Slane explained. "On the little hall table of this woman's house there was a plateful of cards—nearly all Charles' friends and mine—and yet not one of Charles'. I formed a theory that someone had brought away the cards—spring cleaning, or something of that sort—as mementos, or to use as a little social leg-up in a strange neighborhood."
"You are a very clever man. Sir Jasper," Mrs. Mariote observed, after a brief pause. "Yes, I can tell you about Betty—Betty Frostland, she is now. She came to me two years ago. Charles brought her to be a sort of assistant secretary and housekeeper. She had had a small part in one of his plays, but she was obviously no good upon the stage, though Charles wanted to do something for her. She was very pretty, and attracted a great deal too much attention in the house. I told her some time ago that she would have to leave. She begged to stay on for another month, and at the end of that time she came and told me that she was going to be married to a commercial traveler named Frostland. I was only too glad to hear of it. I even sent her a wedding present."
"You knew that Maurice Klein was one of her admirers?" Slane inquired.
Mrs. Mariote nodded.
"Do you know of any other great admirers she may have had?"
"Dozens—amongst them, I am very sorry to tell you in confidence, Charles. That is the real reason why I was so anxious to get rid of her."
There was a silence, natural enough at first, but which became suddenly flagrant with ugly possibilities. A curious and repulsive thought was framing itself in Jasper Slane's mind, and, as though by a sort of psychic intuition, some apprehension of it seemed to be making its poisonous way into the brain of the woman seated opposite to him. Presently she rose to her feet.
"Well, I've told you all that I know," she said, ringing the bell—"perhaps exaggerated a little. Charles' flirtations always did annoy me though—unreasonably in this case, I suppose, for I'm perfectly certain that he hasn't seen the girl since she was married. Is it too early to offer you a cocktail, Sir Jasper?"
"Thank you, no," he answered. "I mustn't stop."
The butler appeared at the door. Slane bowed over Mrs. Mariote's icy fingers. Then he took his leave.
Slane kept his appointment with Inspector Stimpson, and gave him an abridged account of his interview with Mrs. Mariote. Stimpson had news of his own. He produced a telegram.
"This arrived at Elm Villa just after I got back. Handed in at the Strand Post Office, and dated nine o'clock this morning."
WHERE WERE YOU LAST NIGHT? WAITED AN HOUR. COME FOR COCKTAIL USUAL PLACE AND LUNCH—HARRY
"Gay little lady, Mrs. Frostland, apparently," the detective reflected, as he folded up the telegram. "Of course it may be a plant."
"Any local news?"
Stimpson shook his head.
"We've had what I call real bad luck there," he confided. "I can't find a soul who saw anyone enter or leave the house during the whole evening."
"Queer thing that!" Slane reflected. "Two men must have entered the house at various times during the evening, and one must have left it even if the lady didn't come back."
"Where shall you be this afternoon?" the detective inquired.
"At home," Sir Jasper replied, looking out at the driving rain. Stimpson, who was obviously worried, took his leave, declining any offer of refreshment. Slane strolled into the little sanctum of sanctums—the bar smoking room, which had no bar. It was occupied by a single person, who was completely hidden behind an early edition of the Evening News.
"Dry Martini," Slane ordered, as the waiter made his appearance. The paper suddenly lowered. It was Mariote who sat there—Mariote, looking very much like a man who had been up all night and was engaged in regretting it.
"Hullo!" he greeted Slane. "Bring me a dry Martini, too, waiter," he called out. "You've heard—about poor little Maurice?"
Slane nodded.
"I was there when the poor fellow's body was found."
"What?" Mariote almost shrieked.
Slane recounted his adventures, concluding with his visit to Mrs. Mariote.
"Of course she couldn't tell me much," he wound up, "except that she helped me to discover the young woman's identity.
The waiter appeared with the cocktails. Mariote almost snatched his from the tray.
"Two more," he ordered.
The usual crowd was beginning to troop in. Conversation, naturally enough, all turned upon the murder.
"Look here, you chaps," Mariote begged, almost hysterically, "chuck it for a bit! I was very fond of Maurice, and this affair's given me a nasty shock."
Everyone was properly sympathetic, but there were one or two who, on their way to the luncheon room, whispered together. Mariote followed them presently, and sat between Slane and a famous criminal lawyer. Then, abruptly, he left the table.
"Poor chap!" the lawyer remarked. "Artistic temperament, of course, and all that. I didn't think he was quite so keen about Maurice these days. The young fellow was too keen on that little girl of his."
Jasper Slane kept his thoughts to himself. He had very little appetite, and soon concluded his lunch. The gossip all around him hung on the fringe of a dangerous topic, and, without entering the smoking-room afterward, he called a taxi, and drove home. From its place upon a small bookstand he drew out a railroad guide and studied it carefully. As he replaced it, the telephone at his elbow rang. He took up the receiver, and recognized Stimpson's voice.
"That you. Sir Jasper? We've found the lady. We may have done her an injustice this time, it seems. She was knocked down by a taxi last night in the Strand—on her way to that rendezvous, I suppose—and they brought her to Charing Cross Hospital. I'm just off to see her. You'll hear from me later."
"Right-o!" Slane replied, as he rang off. . . .
A moment later, his butler opened the door.
"Mr. Mariote, sir."
The man himself followed close upon the announcement.
"Jasper, old chap," he confided, "I'm in the devil of a mess."
"I guessed it, Charles," was the grave reply, "but how deep is the mess?"
"You've seen the missus. She's told you, of course, that I've always been keen on little Betty. I was doing my best to break it off, but I was furious when she got married. Then I met her one day in the Strand. I found out that she was still carrying on with Maurice. She gave me her address and asked me up to see her. She told me that her husband was away all the week. I declared that I wouldn't go near her. She laughed, and said 'I think you'll come one evening when you're lonely.' . . . I chose last night to pay that visit."
"Go on."
"I got there—rang—no answer. I tried the handle of the door, and found it open. I walked in, and called upstairs. No answer. I opened the door of that blasted sitting-room. My God!"
"Anyone there?" Slane asked.
"Not a soul. Pools of blood, broken chairs, broken glass. I never saw anything so ghastly. Out I went on tiptoe, closed the door, closed the front door, closed the gate, stepped into my taxi, and hopped it."
"Taxi?" Slane repeated quickly.
"That's the devil of it," Mariote groaned. "The fellow's been after me this morning. Wants to know what he's to do. Says he's in debt—owes money for his taxicab. He's had fifty pounds out of me already. He'll probably have fifty thousand before he's done, unless—"
"Have you told me the whole truth, Charles?" Slane interrupted.
"Upon my honor," was the fervent reply.
"Then don't be in such an almighty funk. If you're really innocent we'll get you out of this all right. It's a queer business though. Tell me, do you know of anyone else in the old days who was keen on Betty besides yourself and Maurice?"
"Dozens," Mariote acknowledged, "but not one of them as keen as we were. I'd have stood down all right, Jasper—you know that—if Maurice could have married her, but he couldn't. He's got a wife in Australia.""Did you ever meet the man she did marry?"
Mariote shook his head.
"I sent them a hundred pounds for a wedding present," he said, "but I didn't go to the ceremony."
"Where were you supposed to spend last evening?"
"At the theater. But I couldn't think of anyone except Betty, waiting perhaps for me in her empty house. Then I called a taxi—and I gave the driver her address."
"And what about when you left Hampstead?"
"I went straight home, drank two whiskies-and-sodas, and went to bed."
"Ever had any sort of quarrel or misunderstanding with Maurice Klein before anyone?"
"Nothing to speak of. I daresay I was a little irritable with him lately."
There was a ring at the front door-bell. Stimpson, accompanied by a respectable-looking man of medium height, of ordinary but pleasant appearance, who appeared to be slightly lame, was ushered in.
"Come in," Slane invited. "This is Mr. Mariote, Stimpson. Inspector Stimpson, Charles."
Stimpson nodded.
"And this," he announced, "is Mr. Frostland. He has just arrived up from Bristol. He's on his way to see his wife in the hospital."
"Do sit down, all of you," said Slane, "Mr. Frostland, I am afraid this must have been a very great shock."
"A very great shock indeed, sir," was the quiet reply. "If you would excuse me, I would rather not discuss it more than is necessary. My wife is lying ill in the hospital. I wish to go and see her."
"I shan't keep you more than a minute or two," Slane promised. "You've been working down in Bristol, I understand, Mr. Frostland, for a firm of leather merchants."
"All the week, sir."
"Is there a certain firm of boot manufacturers in Portland Square, Bristol, called May and Mayo?"
"There is," the man replied, looking up in surprise. "A very excellent firm."
"Would they he likely to be users of such commodities as calf kids and glazed kids?"
"Naturally. They are the principal articles used in the manufacture of ladies' shoes. I sold them some yesterday morning."
"Yesterday morning?" Slane repeated with some faint emphasis.
"Yesterday morning, at about half past eleven," Mr. Frostland replied, looking a little bewildered.
Slane rose to his feet. He was standing now between the others and the door.
"Mr. Frostland," he said, "I am sorry, but I am going to make a suggestion to you. You had news in Bristol yesterday afternoon which you didn't like. You went on as usual, though. You pretended that you were tired, and you went to your room soon after you had had your dinner. Instead of going to bed, however, you left the hotel unobserved, and you caught the nine o'clock train to London. You were at your house—Elm Villa—in Brunswick Terrace at half past eleven."
There was complete silence.
"You made there a painful discovery, and you dealt with it after your own fashion. You caught the mail train back to Bristol, and you were in your bed when you were called this morning. In the meantime, however, you had killed Maurice Klein, whom you had discovered to be your wife's lover."
Frostland nodded gravely. He remained, apparently, the least disturbed occupant of the room.
"Quite true, sir," he admitted. "I was hoping I might get to the hospital to see my wife first, after which it was my intention to tell the truth, in case anyone else might be suspected. I received an express letter yesterday afternoon from an old friend who I knew would not deceive me. Afterward I did just about what you have suggested. Forgive me, though, if I ask one question. How did you learn the truth?"
"It was like all these things, far too simple," said Slane. "You left by the window, naturally, and you left very cleverly, for you left no trace behind you except a small, rolled-up business card, which the rain had beaten down into the box border—a card bearing the name of May and Mayo, with the order they had given you that day—yesterday. It was obvious, therefore, that you must have come up from Bristol that evening."
"I thank you very much, sir," Frostland declared. "I have always maintained that it is just these small things which upset one's calculations."
The handcuffs clicked upon his wrists. He looked at them meditatively.
"Perhaps it is better like this," he said. "I have been a quiet-living man all my life, but if I had got to the hospital— well—"
Again there was little emotion in his tone, yet the three men who watched his twitching fingers, and listened to that last monosyllable, shivered.</story>