<story title="GENTLEMAN BILL" date="1919">
JASPER SLANE was pulled up short upon the pavement of Shaftesbury Avenue, a thoroughfare which he seldom used. A pair of wonderful black eyes flashed recognition into his. The slim, small figure, in neat blue serge, was familiar, and the unusual voice, too, brought back a flood of memories, the thrill of which had not yet passed.
"It's Sir Jasper Slane, isn't it?" He raised his hat mechanically.
"We are scarcely likely to forget one another," he replied, with an unusual note of gravity in his tone.
The pavement was crowded. The girl looked around.
"I'd like to speak to you," she said. "Where can we sit down?"
Slane hesitated. There was another memory, too, asserting itself—the memory of that shrill, long laugh ringing through the room of terror with strange inhuman note. His hesitation, however, was merely momentary. They were only a few yards from a well-known grill-room. He led the girl in. They sat at a corner table, and ordered cocktails.
"I had an idea," he said, "that you were in prison."
The girl shook her head.
"They didn't send me to prison," she replied. "I've been up before the magistrate three times—this morning for the last time. Chicago doesn't require my extradition. No one has anything against me. Even your frozen-faced magistrate admitted that this morning. He had the impertinence to give me a lecture on keeping good company, and turned me loose."
Slane had no wish to prolong the interview, and his manner proclaimed the fact.
"And now, Mrs. Chandler," he begged. "say what you wish to, please. I have an appointment in a very short time."
"You aren't going to be friendly, then?" she observed.
"Mrs. Chandler," he answered, "quite frankly, I do not think that we have anything in common. I have read your American record. Stimpson got it for me. You seem to have been the associate of criminals all your life. You came to Europe with a murderer."
She sighed.
"You're right, I suppose," she admitted. "It's the wrong half of life that attracts me."
Slane glanced at his watch. She leaned forward, her chin upon her clasped hands.
"Are you Englishmen all as hard to get on with?" she complained. "The American men used to find me attractive enough. Don't I appeal to you at all? I'm lonesome. I want someone to help me get my ticket, and see me off home. You're not even asking me to dinner. No more politeness and talk about engagements, please. You needn't be afraid of me. I have fifty thousand dollars in the bank here, and twice as much in New York. Be human. Stop and talk to me a little while."
"Mrs. Chandler," Slane said, "you're a very attractive young woman without a doubt, but I'm not a boy. I am not a seeker after adventures. That may sound brutal, I am afraid, but then you Americans are plain-spoken sometimes, aren't you?"
"That's true," she murmured, without removing her eyes from his. "I've rather a crush on you though. However, if that's your answer, let it go. But can't we talk business?"
"I don't exactly see what sort of business," Slane admitted.
"Simple enough," she answered. "I won't have anything to do with your friend Stimpson, who trapped Josh, and I won't have anything to do with your filthy headquarters who've been bullying me and trying to get me locked up, but I'll deal with you if you like. Your police are getting flowers thrown at them all the time because they caught Josh. What about Bill Parrot—Gentleman Bill?"
"I never heard of him," Slane confessed frankly.
She laughed shortly, and pointed to a telephone booth.
"Order me another Martini," she directed. "You go to the telephone and ring up your rotten friends. Ask your Mr. Stimpson, or any one of them, whether they want Gentleman Bill, or not. If they've never heard of him, if they don't want him, I won't bother you any more. I'll drink my cocktail, and trot off like a poor little girl alone in the wide, wide world."
Slane hesitated for a moment. After all, this woman had been in the network of that terrible underworld, the fame of which had spread even to Europe. She knew what she was talking about. He rose reluctantly to his feet, ordered the cocktail, and made his way to the telephone. Stimpson was at the other end of the line in a few moments.
"Are you alone?" Slane inquired. "I want to ask you a few questions."
Stimpson's reply seemed to come a little gravely.
"Yes, I'm alone. You're still at the Trocadero, I suppose?"
"How the mischief did you know that?"
"You are being shadowed, or rather the young woman is. You think you met her accidentally, no doubt? You didn't. She's been tracking you down all morning. I'm not sure that she's up to any harm so far as you are concerned, but be careful. What is the game, anyhow?"
"Well, it seems to me," Slane confided, "that she's out for a double-cross. Either a person by the name of Gentleman Bill, or myself."
There was a brief silence at the other end of the telephone. Then Stimpson's voice again.
"You've left the girl while you telephone to me. What was the excuse?"
"To know whether you wanted Gentleman Bill."
"Yes, I want him all right," Stimpson admitted. "It's the Foreign Department really. It's Pulsen who's going at it, but we want him. I'm not sure, though, about your young lady friend."
"Nor am I."
"Look here," Stimpson continued, "it's a quarter to six now. Are you doing anything particular?"
"No."
"Keep in touch with the young woman, but get rid of her for the present. I'll see you at Ciro's in the American Bar in half an hour."
"The American Bar at Ciro's," Slane repeated, a little surprised. "That's a new hunting-ground, isn't it?"
"At half past six," Stimpson murmured. "Ring off now, Sir Jasper, there's a good fellow. . . ."
Slane returned to his place. He felt the girl's eyes watching him as he crossed the room.
"Well," she asked, "how did the mention of Gentleman Bill go?"
"Stimpson was interested all right," he acknowledged, "but I fancy he must have another case on. He doesn't seem frightfully keen."
"He will be when you've talked it over with him, as I suppose you will before long," she said coolly.
Her eyes sought his, and there was tenderness enough in their dark depths, whether it was mendacious or otherwise. Her fingers caressed the back of his hand. He was fascinated by the sight of her wonderfully manicured nails, talon-like in length. . . . A man entered from the restaurant end of the place. At that hour there were few people about, and they both turned their heads to look at him. Slane could feel the girl by his side stiffen.
The man lounged up towards them —clean-shaven, thick-necked, with an ugly figure and bulbous eyes. He wore the plain gray suiting of an American business man, but his appearance was that of a fighting man gone morally to seed.
"Hullo, Leda!" he replied. "Who's your friend?"
"Ask me another," she rejoined carelessly. "I came in here because I was sick of being followed, and the gentleman asked me to have a drink."
"Followed?" the newcomer repeated uneasily.
She nodded.
"Don't go out that way," she advised, pointing to the Shaftesbury Avenue entrance. "I don't understand the game, but foreigners don't seem exactly popular over here just now. See you later, Ed."
The man hesitated for a moment. He looked at Slane—a cunning, reflective regard. Then he turned unwillingly away. Even after he had passed out of sight, the girl gazed after him.
"He's the pick of the bunch, he is," she muttered. "If he'd known you were in at Josh's taking, it would have been the little black hole for you, pretty quick."
"You seem," Slane remarked dryly, "to have some queer friends."
"You don't understand," she sighed. "They're killers, these men—every one of them. I'm no chicken. I can stand seeing men get what's coming to them, but I can't make 'em understand that over here they've got to quit. I hate to leave you. I wanted to have a long talk with you, but with Ed around I think you'd better go."
"Where are you staying?" Slane asked. "I imagine that Stimpson would like to have a talk with you."
"Well, he won't have it where I'm staying," she replied shortly. "I'm at the Gigantic Hotel. You'd better not come and see me there, though. Can't I come to you? You needn't be afraid of Ed or any of the gang following. I can give them the slip easy."
"It's a long way out," he warned her. "Number 14 St. James Avenue," she told him, smiling. "I know all about it, you see. Twenty minutes in a taxicab. Can I come to dinner tonight?"
"You can come tomorrow night," he told her. "At eight o'clock."
She looked nervously around.
"And your friend from Scotland Yard?"
"We'll dine alone," Slane promised, "but listen—what am I to call you?"
"Leda," she decided promptly.
"Listen, Leda, then," he continued. "You seem to me to be mixed up with a pretty dangerous gang. If you want to quit, why do it, but I'd be careful how you got seen about with any of us connected with, or friendly with, the police. Your friend who rejoiced in the name of Ed looked a little malicious. He might easily find out who I was. Stimpson would be worse. I think our folk at Scotland Yard are quite capable of dealing with your lot without any information from you. Hadn't you better leave the whole business alone?"
The girl moistened her lips. She looked at Slane long and with a certain mystery in the depths of her eyes.
"If I quit," she said, "I shall be in for it so long as they're going. I shall be in for it just as much as though they knew I'd squealed. And I want to quit—you know why."
Slane was not more impressionable than most men, but he felt a little shiver as her arms for a moment half caressed him. He knew quite well that only the presence of a few stray clients who had just entered, and the waiter who was attending to their wants, had prevented her lips from brushing his.
* * * * *
The fat man, collarless, and in his shirt sleeves, turned away from the window and laid the telescope upon the table. There were big drops of unwholesome sweat upon his forehead. He moistened his protuberant lips.
"Get me a drink, Leda," he demanded.
The girl rose and made her way deliberately to the sideboard. She filled a tumbler half full of whisky and splashed in a little soda water. The man snatched it from her and gulped down three quarters of its contents.
"You're losing your nerve," she observed. "What's the matter with you, Ed?"
The man who had disturbed her with Slane on the previous afternoon looked up from a pile of phonograph records with one in his hand. His fingers were shaking so that it slipped and fell upon the carpet. She looked at both men in contempt.
"Gone soft!" she scoffed. "If you take my advice, you'll quit."
"Maybe you're right, girl," the fat man admitted. "I feel safer in the old burg, even though we're in bad with the cops. I'm for the Atlantic after this."
"You'd never land, and you know it," the other man sneered.
"What d'you mean?"
"Just what I say. There were a couple of bulls on board in New York harbor. Travis was there—the man who turned square. He tapped me on the shoulder just before he went down the gangway. 'You've had all the luck, Ed,' he said, 'breathing the fresh air at this present moment. Breathe it where it's good, on the other side. Don't you try bringing the old man back. It wouldn't go with us.' That's what Travis said to me, and he meant it too."
"We got to live somewhere," the fat man groaned.
"You won't live anywhere long if you don't quit drinking," the girl told him calmly. "Look at you. You're shaking as if you had palsy."
"Ain't I likely to?" he snarled. "Ain't we got the whole thing worked out to a second, and ain't they ten minutes late already?"
"Listen! There's the lift!" she cried softly.
Curiously enough, the same thought seemed to come to both of the two men. Their hands traveled to their hip pockets. They heard the opening of the doors, the rattle of a key in the lock, a familiar whistle. An expression of beatific relief convulsed the fat man's face. The door was thrown open. Two men entered, replicas of Ed, but harder featured.
"Well, well, what's doing here?" the first one exclaimed, throwing a carefully pinned-up cluster of roses upon the table. "There're your flowers, Leda. Some climate this, isn't it? Pretty wet. Jim's gone crazy because he's sold five hundred records."
"You've done it?" the fat man croaked, his voice wheezy with agitation.
"Clean as a whistle," was the cool rejoinder. "Not a hitch anywhere."
"You made a clean get-away?"
"I'll say we did. It was raining like hell. Couldn't see anyone's face for umbrellas. We drove slowly away, changed plates at the Kank Street Garage, and here we are. Look me over, Leda, quick, and Jim as well."
"Any trouble?" the fat man demanded.
"They never got near us. I had to put a second one into the kid near the door. He was trying to crawl to it. All right, Leda?"
"O.K.," she replied. "Let's have a look at you, Jim."
The men were perfectly unruffled— their garments neat and tidy—not even their ties disarranged.
"Pan out to figure?" the man at the table asked.
"Pretty well," the other admitted. "Ninety thousand pounds. That's nearly half a million dollars. We've got to change some of the bank-note figures. When we've done that, there'll be enough to divide. Hell, Leda, why don't you give me a Scotch? Do you think it's such soft work plugging bullets into those fellows that I don't need a drink?" She moved to the sideboard and did as she was told. She looked at the speaker —who went by the name of Gentleman Bill—curiously.
"Some nerve, Bill!" she remarked.
"Wouldn't be in our job long without it, little woman."
He passed his arm around her. She eluded him, and he scowled.
"None of that," he complained sharply. "You and I have got to talk, young woman. Say," he went on, "we've shown these Londoners how to rob a bank, right in Lambeth, too. Slickest thing on record."
"Tell us about it," the fat man begged. "Makes me feel young again."
"We left the car in a side street where the temporary door was," Gentleman Bill continued, raising the glass to his lips. "Then we went in with those checks and that letter of credit. It was two minutes before closing time. The old boy slopped all over us. Of course we could have an account! A new phonograph, eh? Wonderful business!
"He gave us a lot of documents to sign, and sat down at a table. They locked the front doors, and came fussing up. 'We'll let you out at the side,' the old boy told us. We waited until they were all in sight, then Jim took 'em from the right-hand. I started with the old boy, and plugged 'em from the left. Seven of them, and the kid was the only one who didn't go right away.
"We didn't hurry. We cleared out everything from the safe that was worth having, and we left by the side door. Gee, it was raining! We just closed the door behind us, got in the car, and drove off."
They all took more Scotch. They were in a sitting-room on the ninth floor of the Hotel Gigantic, and, notwithstanding the rain, one of them threw the window open a little wider.
""The only trouble is," Gentleman Bill continued, "that they'll know we were Americans. There's never been an English gang cleaned up things like we've done. They don't shoot much over here. White-livered lot of milk-can pinchers— that's what they are! God, I can't taste this whisky!"
"You've had enough," the girl warned him, as he held out his glass. "You might need your nerve even now."
"I should worry," the man scoffed. "I tell you we made a clean get-away. Number plates of the car changed. Johnny, who drove us, is shaved by now, and the car's all cleaned up."
Bill set down his glass.
"Let me look you two boys over again," he proposed.
"Tie, collar, buttons, everything all right," said Bill, looking Jim over. "Shoes? Everything O.K. What about your rubbers?"
"Left 'em outside the bank. No mark in 'em. No maker's name. All the same anyway."
The girl strolled over, a cigarette in her mouth. She, too, examined both men carefully. Then she opened the door and, looking out, passed into the hall. She returned in a moment with a pair of gloves in her hand.
"Whose are these?" she asked.
"Mine."
She held one of them up.
"When did you lose the button?"
They crowded round. The threads were there. The button was missing.
"It was all right when I took my gloves off in the bank parlor," Gentleman Bill muttered. "I never noticed them since. Hell!"
There was a short, tense silence. The fat man was breathing heavily. They were all thinking of the marble floor of the bank, wondering into what crevice a small horn button could have rolled.
"Supposing they find the button," Leda said at last, "I don't see that it's going to harm you, unless they find the glove."
They looked at the glove. The fat man glanced at the fire, but Leda shook her head.
"Give it to me," she insisted, placing it in her bag.
"What are you going to do with it?" Gentleman Bill demanded.
"What do you think I'm going to do with it, you fool?" she retorted. "I'm going to sew a button on."
The strain seemed somehow to be broken. The fat man tittered with laughter. So did the others. There was a knock at the door. The laughter ceased suddenly. Leda relit her cigarette, and put on another record. Gentleman Bill called out "Come in!" just as a key turned in the lock and an attendant entered. He carried in his hand a menu and an evening paper.
"Good evening, gentlemen," he said, bowing. "I thought you'd like the news. Most terrible outrage ever been known in London. A bank robbery of pretty near half a million in your American money, and seven men killed!"
The man handed over the paper. They spread it upon the table, and read the few lines.
"Well, that certainly is some cleanup," the fat man commented. "No arrests yet?"
"Apparently not, sir," the man replied.
"They'll get 'em all right," Gentleman Bill declared. "You can't make a haul like that in England. It's only in the States the crooks have got the upper hand. Who's dining here?"
"I'm not," Leda announced coolly. Gentleman Bill lowered the menu.
"Who says you're not?" he demanded.
"I do," she answered. "I'm going out."
The waiter stood respectfully mute. Gentleman Bill handed back the menu.
"Keep our usual table for four at eight o'clock," he ordered. "We'll eat in the grill-room. Better make it five. The young lady may change her mind. And send up some cocktails. We'll order dinner when we get down."
The waiter bowed and disappeared. Gentleman Bill looked across at Leda. Ed looked at her, too. The fat man scowled at her.
"So you're leaving us?" the former remarked, in a subtly menacing tone.
"I am," she replied, "and what's more there isn't one of you going to stop me. You all go out and pick up your girls and take 'em to dinner when you want to. Why shouldn't I? If I see a chap I fancy, I'm going to dine with him."
She was across the threshold before they could stop her. They heard the outside door slam, heard the lift gate open and shut.
Gentleman Bill began to swear.
The fat man was shaking again.
"And she's got the glove," he muttered.
* * * * *
With a perversity which he would have scorned as a purely feminine feeling, Slane was conscious of something very near disappointment when a quarter past eight arrived, and there was still no sign of Leda. Eventually, Parkins made his discreet appearance.
"Shall I serve dinner, sir?" he inquired. Slane nodded, mixed himself a cocktail, lit a cigarette, and sat down alone. He found himself wondering how the girl would have looked in that vacant place. There was something about her which possessed a distinct if somewhat savage attraction. He gave a little start of anticipation when towards the middle of the meal there was the sound of a car brought to a sudden standstill outside. The door bell rang. A moment later. Parkins was ushering in—Stimpson. The latter's first glance was at the empty place.
"Were you expecting someone. Sir Jasper?" he asked.
Slane nodded.
"It wasn't a definite engagement. A wild young lady from Chicago had invited herself. Why, what's wrong?"
There was a very sober expression in Stimpson's blue eyes. He shook his head.
"Bad luck," he murmured, "Her days of dining out are over."
"They've got her then—her own gang?" Slane exclaimed.
"I'm afraid so. Do you mind—?"
He went to the sideboard, and helped himself to wine.
"Heard about this Lambeth affair?" he inquired.
Slane shook his head.
"My evening paper hasn't come."
"The worst bank outrage ever known in London," Stimpson went on. "Six clerks and the cashier killed, stone dead. They got in somehow after hours, and shot everyone in the place. That's the American way, you know—no one left to give evidence. Then they cleared off with about ninety thousand pounds in treasury and bank notes, and every negotiable bond in the safe."
"Hideous!" Slane declared. "But tell me about the girl—"
"I'm here because of that. She took a taxicab from the Gigantic Hotel, and all the driver can remember is that she told him to go to St. James Avenue, Hampstead. Halfway there, he fancied he heard a groan. He looked in. She was quite dead—bullet through her head—shot through the window. They were evidently afraid she was coming to squeal. Blast them!"
The distress in Slane's face was a very real thing.
"I wish I'd never encouraged her," he regretted bitterly.
"There was another reason," Stimpson continued. "We found her handbag opened, the contents strewn upon the floor. They were evidently looking for something. After that we had to search her. No luck, though!"
"What did you expect to find?" Slane asked.
"It's a slim sort of clue, of course," Stimpson admitted, "but there was a glove button picked up just in front of the safe. We'd like to find the glove it came from. . . . You'll forgive me, Sir Jasper. This is the biggest thing that's come to me for years."
He rang up the Yard, and spoke rapidly. Then he held out his glass, which Slane refilled.
"You'd better come away from this room with that empty place," he advised. "It'll give you the creeps. I can't promise you'll be in at the taking. It's Pulsen's affair more than mine, but we're going for them."
It was almost midnight when Slane, who had been listening for the telephone, heard instead the outside bell. Parkins, who was still up, answered it.
"A taxicab driver wishes to speak to you, sir," he announced.
"Show him in," Slane ordered quickly. A very respectable-looking but worried man in leather coat and breeches was ushered in. He touched his hat, and waited until Parkins had disappeared.
"I am the chauffeur, sir," he said, "who was driving the young lady."
He broke down for a moment, and looked away.
"Take your time," Slane begged. "Here, have a whisky-and-soda."
The man accepted it gratefully.
"Two hours I was at the police station, sir," he continued, "and, 'pon my word, you'd think I'd done the young lady a harm myself the way they questioned me. I couldn't help it that anyone got on the running board without my hearing them. Anyway, I'm keeping my word to the poor young lady."
He felt in the breast pocket of his coat.
"She seemed kind of scared, sir, when she started," he confided. "When we had gone a little way, she stopped me and made me get down. She shoved this into my hand. 'Listen,' she said, 'if anything happens to me on the way up—I don't suppose it will—take this to the gentleman at Number 14 St. James Avenue. He'll understand.'"
The man handed across a glove, buttonless, with a half sheet of notepaper stuck inside the palm. Slane drew out the paper. He took it to the electric light. It was written clearly but in a thin, spidery hand:
"I am coming to you because I like you, and not because I mean to squeal, but the gang have got it in for me, and there's no telling what they'll do. If anything happens, here's the glove Gentleman Bill wore home this afternoon, and you'll find the whole lot at 89 Hotel Gigantic. They are established there selling the Peerless phonograph and records. Don't you go near them yourself. They're killers, every one of them. I hope I'll tear this up over our cocktails."
There was a mist dimming Slane's eyes as he finished reading. He folded the note up reverently.
He took a couple of five-pound notes from his pocket, and passed them over.
"I only done what the young lady asked me, sir," the man said.
"You've done a great deal more than you can guess at for the moment," Slane assured him, as he showed him out. . . .
Afterwards Slane glanced at his watch, and rang up Scotland Yard.
"Put me through to Mr. Stimpson," he directed. "He will be in his room all night. . . . Good! . . . That you, Stimpson? . . . Listen! I've got all you want. Will you come to me, or do you want me to bring it down?"
"I'm coming to you like a flash," was the terse reply.
* * * * *
A CURIOUS atmosphere prevailed in the big sitting-room at the top of the Gigantic Hotel. The fat man sat hunched in his easy-chair, the epitome of despair. Gentleman Bill, in carefully chosen evening attire, lounged on a couch, going through the evening papers one by one. The third man was writing letters.
"You shouldn't have done that," the fat man groaned. "Bill, you shouldn't have done that. The girl was all right. She was on the square."
Gentleman Bill looked up from his paper.
"Was she?" he rejoined coolly. "She was on her way up to Hampstead, to dine with her fancy man, and who do you think he was. Fatty? I'll tell you. He was a man named Slane—Jasper Slane, with a handle to his name—a bull. On to us. Fatty!"
"She didn't have the glove," the fat man whimpered. "She didn't mean any harm."
Gentleman Bill strolled languidly to the sideboard, opened a bottle of champagne, and poured out half a tumblerful. He was just crossing the room with it when they heard footsteps outside.
"What's that?" Fatty cried.
"Don't be a fool," the latter snarled across the room. "I ordered some supper."
The doors were opened. Two waiters appeared, trundling in a table. For a moment the fat man forgot his troubles.
"Caviar!" he exclaimed. "Good! Say, there are times when you hit the spot, Ed. A little supper was what we all wanted."
The fat man helped himself to caviar. Halfway up to his mouth the piece of toast dropped. He began to shake.
"You shouldn't have done that, Bill," he moaned. "I was kind of fond of her."
The man with the gray face and bulbous eyes leaned across the table.
"Fatty," he said quietly, "I have known men—real men—brought to harm by blubbering, whining chunks of flesh such as you. Bill and I ain't going to run that risk. Do you get me?"
It was a tense, very psychological moment. Apparently all three men were feeling the same about their former chief. They were all leaning towards him, absorbed. The time had come when they had to put the fear of God into Fatty's blood and heart, or trouble might come. And they meant to do it. Upon the door which connected the other rooms, Fatty's eyes seemed set in a horrible stare. His cheeks had fallen more than ever. A streak of red crept through the unwholesome white.
Then they knew. It was one of the moments of their lives when they were caught unawares. The room seemed filled with dark-clothed men. Wherever they looked the lamplight seemed to flash upon the glitter of those leveled guns. Scotland Yard was learning things. Stimpson hadn't brought his men to be shot down like useless beings.
The order came from four corners of the room simultaneously. Curiously enough, the only man who disobeyed was Fatty himself, simply because his brain refused to move. He collapsed in his chair with a bullet in his shoulder blade, only a second or two before the handcuff's clicked upon the wrists of his three companions. His head flopped from side to side in helpless fashion.
"Ed shouldn't have done that," he groaned, just as he was losing consciousness.</story>