<story title="THE TROUBLESOME KINGDOM OF SELM" date="1929">
JASPER SLANE lowered his Times as his fellow- passenger addressed him. He had no wish to seem lacking in courtesy, but he had all the Englishman's desire to read his newspaper at the earliest possible moment of the day, and without interruption.
"A beautiful country of yours," the stranger remarked, waving his hand patronizingly out of the window. "I like it very much."
Slane murmured his gratification, and prepared to settle down again to the reading of a spirited debate in the House of Commons. His vis-à-vis in the carriage, however, had other ideas.
"What I like so much about England is this," he continued earnestly. "Wherever one travels there are so many like you who go about making games and sport."
Slane was in golfing attire , having played that morning at Rye, and being now on his way back to town. He laid down his newspaper. If the man was a foreigner, he must not be given a wrong impression of an Englishman's manners . There was something a little intriguing, too, in the melancholy-eyed, olive-skinned young man with his close-cropped black military mustache, his air of a somewhat faded elegance.
"We don't find quite so much time for sport as we used to," Slane confided. "Life moves on a little faster nowadays. I have been down at Rye for a weekend's golf."
"Golf," the young man repeated. "I have not golf. I ride the horse most days. You find I speak English good, yes? I was educated at your Oxford."
"You speak very well," Slane assured him hastily. "Much better, I am quite sure, than I could speak your language."
"Mine is difficult," the young man acknowledged, with a little sigh of self-satisfaction.
"I learn languages very much. It is necessary for me."
"You travel a great deal?"
"I must travel," was the somewhat disconsolate reply. "I am what you call an exile."
"Bad luck!" Slane murmured. "What is your nationality?"
The young man sighed, but he seemed not to hear the question. He was gazing at the rows of neat villas, at the tall factory chimneys on the outskirts of the town through which they were passing.
"So much money there is in your country!" he murmured. "So little in mine."
"You should go to America if you want to see what prosperity's really like," Slane suggested.
"It is a long way from home," the young man reflected, "and they tell me that it is a country of strange customs. But I'd like to go there some day."
He produced a gold cigarette case from his pocket, upon which was embossed what appeared to be a foreign coronet, and passed it to his neighbor, who shook his head as he was already smoking his pipe. Whereupon the young man lit a cigarette himself, and sighed once more. He was apparently in a melancholy frame of mind.
"What is your country?" Slane asked.
The foreigner looked at him for a moment a little vaguely. Then he blew away a cloud of tobacco smoke, and shook his head.
"I am here what you call incognito," he confided. "It is best that I do not speak of my country. She has misfortunes. Tell me, are you, by any chance, a friend of your Prime Minister?"
"I certainly am not," Slane declared. "I am afraid my political acquaintances are few and far between."
"That is a pity," the other regretted. "I should like to meet your Prime Minister. I should like to meet him just as I meet you—in this carriage. If I should succeed in interesting him, he might talk. Shall I tell you about your politicians?"
"Go ahead," Slane invited.
"They know nothing," the young man continued, awaking to a certain show of energy, "except what they read in the newspapers. They are governed by newspapers. The man who owns a newspaper is a ruler. The man who owns half-a-dozen newspapers is an emperor. England is ruled by newspapers. That is why I fear it would be no use after all if I did meet your Prime Minister. It would be better for me to meet one of your great newspaper owners, except that I know so well beforehand what he would do. He would pull me to pieces. He would pull my country to pieces. He would pull our government to pieces. There would be—is that good?—hell and thunder to pay."
"They aren't all so bad as that," Slane protested good-humoredly. "Our newspaper men have to be men of brains."
"But your politicians are nincompoops," the other declared in some excitement. "The press sets them up; the press throws them down. They last just as long as the newspaper which supports them decrees. That is what I find out. I come to your country, and I find that out."
"Do you take an interest in the politics of your own country when you are at home?" Slane asked.
"An interest? In my own country I am nothing what count. I talk too much. It is a fault when I get a little excited. Forget what I have said, sir. You English are wonderful. You fill the position to which Germany aspired. You dominate Europe."
He relapsed into silence, and Slane picked up the Times again. At Waterloo Station the latter was not quite sure whether he would not find on the platform the uniformed attendants of some country lunatic asylum waiting for his fellow traveler. In their place, however, a personable young man, wearing a college tie, hurried to the carriage door, welcomed his companion respectfully, and led him away toward a waiting motor car. Slane would probably have forgotten the incident of this strange foreigner altogether but for the fact that, on arriving at his house, his servant placed in his hands an official-looking document which had just arrived from the Foreign Office.
"Sir John rang up himself a few minutes ago, Sir Jasper," the man confided. "He wants to see you the moment you arrive."
Slane broke the seal upon the envelope, and glanced through the few written lines, which were merely a confirmation of the telephone message. He picked up his hat, stepped back into the car, and was driven to Whitehall.
"I came just as I was," he apologized, as he was shown into Sir John's private room.
"Quite right, my dear fellow," the other greeted him. "I wanted just a word or two with you quickly. Just home from a golfing week-end, eh?"
Slane nodded.
"I've been down at Rye. Wonderful course, but rotten weather until this morning."
Sir John pushed a box of cigarettes across the table.
"I sent for you," the Minister began, "because I believe that you could help us in a little matter concerning which we are in some difficulty. There's a man over in this country from Selm— Prince Francis, as a matter of fact, the King's brother—and we very badly want to know what he's here for."
"Surely your people in X.Y O. Department could find out all they want to know about him?" Slane queried.
"Naturally they could," the other agreed. "So could Scotland Yard. On the other hand, the young man has announced his mission here to be entirely non-political, and he is, I believe, traveling incognito. That being so, we should get into a hell of a mess if it were ever found out that we were officially concerned in prying into his doings here. I want to pry into them all the same, but I want you to do it."
"You've come to the right man," Slane observed. "I've just traveled up from Rye with him."
Sir John raised his eyebrows.
"Do you mean that?" he asked incredulously.
"Well, I traveled up with a distinguished foreigner," Slane recounted, "who told me that he had been educated at Oxford, and refused to tell me his nationality because he was traveling incognito."
The Minister stretched out his hand toward his writing table, reached for a photograph, and passed it to his visitor. The latter nodded.
"That's the fellow," he assented. "Left him at Waterloo half-an-hour ago."
"Didn't give you any excuse for looking him up or anything of that sort, I suppose?"
"Not the slightest. On the contrary he was very civil to start with, but scarcely said good afternoon when we parted. Temperamental sort of chap, I should think."
"He's supposed to be the only one of the royal family with any brains," Sir John confided. "We're in a queer sort of position with regard to Selm, Slane. God knows why, but we floated their last loan, and we're practically their only creditors. They're behindhand with their interest already, and if we have to put the screw on there'll be hell to pay for the simple reason that a country with whom it would be impossible for us to quarrel has secretly and for some unknown reason been acquiring powerful interests there. I've already sent a polite note to Prince Francis—Count Pratzo, he calls himself here—saying that although I have every desire to respect his incognito I should be glad to have an informal chat with him if he would call. His reply was civil but definite. He was here, he said, on business which precluded his discussing the affairs of his country. I want to know what that business is."
"I see," Slane murmured. "I can use M.I.X.O. Branch, I suppose, for anything I want?"
"Unofficially, certainly," Sir John assented. "Do your best, Slane, and let me hear from you as soon as possible."
* * * * *
SLANE, after three or four singularly unsuccessful days, during which every effort he had made to get into more intimate touch with the mysterious visitor from Selm had met with complete failure, had a stroke of luck. He met Louise Drasdaire in Bond Street, found himself promptly recognized, and invited her to dine with him that night. She accepted after only a slight hesitation.
"I come over here," she confided, "to be with a fellow countryman, who pretends to be very fond of me, but who will go nowhere because he doesn't wish to be seen. I think he comes to make some mischief. We will dine somewhere where he is not likely to be. I am tired of those small places in Soho, and hotel rooms. . . . Ciro's? Yes. I have never heard him speak of Ciro's. At nine o'clock."
So Slane, who had a man in hospital, quite properly thrown out by the servants of Prince Francis, during an uninvited visit to his study, and who was finding it exceedingly difficult to learn much of the doings of a young man who seldom left the sitting-room of the hotel where he was staying, discovered himself at last in touch with someone who could, if she would, tell him something about the activities of this elusive personage. She happened, however, to be an old flame, and showed a distinct preference for talking of more personal things. Slane was feeling a little in despair as the evening passed on without any result.
"Why are you so interested in this Prince Francis?" she asked, after one of his seemingly casual inquiries. "He is, I assure you, a very dull young man. He has no money either—unless these Russian friends decide to help him."
"To help him in what?" Slane inquired carelessly.
She shrugged her shoulders.
"Who can tell? Something to do with his country. He hopes that they will help to place him once more upon the throne of Selm, I think."
"But what on earth does he want to be back on the throne for?" Slane demanded. "It's a miserable, half-starved country."
"Écoutez, mon ami," she confided, holding his arm, "this you must not tell. Perhaps, if I knew more, I should not tell you anything—but there is something in Selm that is precious, something in which the Russians might participate if they got. Francis back. And now, ask me no more. You are a nice man. I like you very much, but I do not like to tell stories about my friends. I give Francis up when you will, but we will talk no more about him. I do not know why I came to England with him. He is so jealous one has no liberty, and these visits to the shops, always they are coming, but they do not arrive. I tell him that I shall go away with his Russian friend who loves me. Oh, la, la!"
It certainly was "la, la!" Prince Francis, with one of his Russian companions, had paused in front of their table. The Prince was very angry, and a little drunk. He addressed Mademoiselle in fluent and abusive French.
Slane he at first ignored, then, suddenly recognizing him, he completely forgot Mademoiselle.
"It was you, you spy, who traveled with me to London!" he exclaimed. "It is your men whom my servants find always about the place. Soon now you try to learn about me from Mademoiselle, eh? You are a cochon!"
Slane easily parried the Prince's ill-directed blow, and held him at arm's length. The young man was infuriated though, and as Slane rose to his feet, he kicked him on the shins. That, for the next quarter of an hour, was the end of the Prince, who was sent hurtling into the middle of the floor by a straight left-hander. There was commotion, a great deal of talk, and explanations, and finally, the evening being a purposeless one so far as he was concerned, Slane consented to leave. Mademoiselle, offered her choice, very much to Slane's relief, elected to remain. . . .
* * * * *
AT HAMPSTEAD he found at last the report, the obtaining of which had cost him so much trouble. He rang up Sir John, whom he was fortunate enough to find at the St. James Club.
"I'm on the trail," Slane confided. "I'm off to Selm tomorrow."
"The devil you are!" the Minister rejoined. "What on earth is there to be done there?"
"More than here anyway," Slane assured him. "I shan't be able to go within a mile of the Prince again. I was giving his lady friend dinner at Ciro's tonight when he came in and made a scene. After that, I'm not a damned bit of use here, but I think I may be in Selm. I'm catching the eleven o'clock train. I want a large sum of money, or a credit will do, a diplomatic passport, and an X.Y.O. cipher."
"Can't you be a little more explicit?" Sir John begged.
"I'd rather not," Slane admitted frankly. "I'm working on an idea. If I'm right, I think I'll be able to save you a great deal of trouble; if I'm wrong, I'm unofficial, and I shan't do any harm. Could we leave it at that?"
The Minister hesitated, but only for a moment.
"Very good, Slane. Have it your own way," he decided. "There's just one thing, though. When you get to Selm, you must go straight to the Embassy. Houlden's not a bad fellow, though he's a trifle out of date. And remember, Charles is the man we want to back. He's a fool, but he's honest. Francis, as we happen to know, was philandering with a Turkish envoy before these people from Leningrad sent for him."
"Right-o!" Slane replied. "From the little I have seen of Francis, I should say you were right."
* * * * *
SO, at eleven o'clock on the following morning Slane steamed out of Victoria Station upon what was for him rather a novel form of adventure.
Exactly nine days later, a mud-caked, dusty, disheveled-looking figure, unshaven, with torn clothes, and unmentionable linen, limped out of a broken-down touring car in front of the English Embassy at Pratza, the capital of Selm, and was scornfully directed by a footman, who answered the door, to the office quarters. Robinson, the First Secretary, however, who was crossing the hall, had an inspiration. He came forward gasping.
"It can't be—is this Sir Jasper Slane?" he asked.
"What's left of me," Slane admitted weakly. "Can I sit on a chair I shan't spoil, and have a double whisky-and-soda?"
Slane knew a few moments of supreme luxury. A whisky-and-soda arrived as though by magic. The supercilious footman kneeled upon the floor and cut away his boots. He was led to a lavatory and plunged his hands and arms and face into hot water. His collar dropped away from him. His clothes followed. They brought him a warm, long dressing gown, took him back to Robinson's room, and refilled his glass. Sir Robert was there by that time.
"My dear Slane!" he exclaimed. "I am Houlden, you know. They sent me a long dispatch about you. Where on earth have you been?"
Slane was feeling like a man again.
"I tackled this job my own way, Sir Robert," he confessed. "I may have been wrong. I may have been right. I had a hint about the western frontier, and I didn't try it. I came in from the north, bought a car and hired a man who understood a little French, and I have come through the districts I wanted to visit. Everything turned out just about as I expected. What we want to arrange now, as soon as ever I can get some clothes, is an audience."
"We can have that any time you like," Sir Robert assured him. "Your clothes are all here. They telephoned me from the station that they were holding the trunk, so I sent for it at once."
"You were quite right about the possibility of trouble at the western frontier. Sir Jasper," Robinson confided. "One of the only first-class passengers, on the day you should have arrived, was shot there by a soldier on guard. They swore it was an accident, but no one believed them. Since then, there's been an extra passport examination every day, and the trains have never been less than an hour late."
"Whatever your mission here may be," Sir Robert observed, "it doesn't seem to have made you popular with the military party."
"I've discovered that for myself," Slane acknowledged. "I'm afraid I had to shoot a man coming through the Bunja Pass—one if not two. They pretended to be bandits, but I'm pretty sure that they were soldiers of a sort."
"I shouldn't be surprised," Sir Robert reflected. "Ferastor—he is the head of the military party here—is a thoroughly unscrupulous fellow—kill you as soon as look at you if he wanted you out of the way. Come along, Slane, and I'll show you your room. After dinner, we'll have a talk, and Robinson shall arrange for the audience."
* * * * *
AT a little before the appointed hour he descended into the drawing-room. There he received his first shock, for, as the stately major-domo announced him, the only visible occupant of the room—a woman both expectant and impatient— rose to her feet. Slane stood rooted to the spot.
"Louise!" he exclaimed.
She patted the seat by her side on the divan. With a little gesture of the hand she waved away the servants. The room was curiously shaped. The recess in which they sat was deserted. From the main portion came the sound of voices. To all intents and purposes, however, they were alone.
"What are you doing here?" Slane demanded.
"And what are you?" she flashed out. "I knew you were lying at Ciro's the other night. That is why I followed you. It is a pity you did not stay on the Orient express."
"On the whole," he murmured, "I think I am just as well pleased that I didn't."
She swallowed what seemed to be a torrent of words, and struggled for composure.
"What has Francis done to you?" she demanded. "Are you here to bolster up this poor effigy of royalty? What have you to do with all this business? Everything was arranged—everything was well arranged—and then you come! Where have you been since you arrived in Selm?"
"Does a man," Slane asked, "make a confidant of his enemy?"
"I do not wish to be your enemy," she declared. "I wish to be your friend— anything you would have me be—but I want to be Queen of Selm."
A servant appeared hesitatingly in the background. Slane, welcoming the interruption, rose promptly to his feet.
"You make me forget my manners," he confided. "I must pay my respects to my hostess."
Again Louise made an effort to control herself. She rose to her feet and passed by his side into the more important part of the salon. Lady Houlden— a rather tired, fair-haired lady, who did her duty by her husband but preferred Paris to Selm—welcomed him in lukewarm fashion. There were no other guests except Robinson.
Dinner was rather an impressive meal. Notwithstanding its somewhat cellar-like appearance, the dining-room of the old palace possessed a certain air of magnificence, and, after his four days of absolute privation, Slane thoroughly enjoyed his return to civilization. All the time, however, there remained the problem of Louise. Her eyes seldom left his face. When her hostess rose, she paused by his chair and laid her hand for a moment upon his shoulder.
"Will you talk to me for five minutes, please, Sir Jasper, before you go to the palace tomorrow?"
"I am a little afraid of you," he confessed, stooping down and looking into her eyes.
She laughed softly.
"Then there is the spice for our conversation," she whispered, "for you are not a man to avoid danger. I shall wait for you in the salon, and you will come." . . .
An orderly made his appearance with the newspapers of two days before. Sir Robert rose to his feet, and snatched at them.
"Go and flirt with Mademoiselle Drasdaire," he enjoined. "I know she's waiting for you. Afterward come to my room, and we'll talk seriously, if there is anything serious to be said."
"Is Mademoiselle Drasdaire a very old friend of the house?" Slane asked, as they passed along the stone corridor.
"I think my wife has known her for some time," Sir Robert answered, a little wearily. "She comes, as I suppose you know, of one of the oldest families here, although, like everyone else, they have nothing but barren land to live on."
"She interests herself in the politics of the country?"
"There are no politics worth thinking of," was the somewhat bored reply. "The only question is whether Charles or Francis has the better right to the throne. Charles is in possession, so we back him. The other man's been lying low, but if ever he could raise enough money to pay the army, there's no doubt that he could walk back. Really I don't think at Downing Street they care much about it either way. All we want is our debt paid, without embroiling ourselves with any other creditor countries. Come into the library when you have finished."
Louise, after all, seemed to have very little battle left in her. She was seated alone in the salon when Slane entered, and she motioned him to her side with a gesture of almost mechanical courtesy.
"The others will be here in a few minutes," she said. "They have gone into the small room to listen to the wireless. Sit down, Jasper, please. I shall not trouble you much more."
"You never trouble me," he assured her.
"Let us speak plain words to each other," she begged. "Once when I knew you, you were a man. Now you seem to have turned into a machine. I weary myself with appeals to your kindness, to your heart. With that we have finished. You have made up your mind to back Charles, yes?"
"I am a machine," he reminded her, "because, in certain matters, I am a servant. You see how frank I am willing to be with you. I am, at the present moment, a government agent. That means that I have neither will nor initiative of my own. Any question I can answer, any help I could give to you which does not interfere with my mission, is yours. Otherwise, I am, as you would be, dumb."
"Very well," she sighed. "Have you cabled to England yet?"
"Not yet," he answered. "My report is written though—and under lock and key," he added dryly.
"Eh bien, there is still time then," she exclaimed more hopefully. "Supposing, Jasper, that Francis could guarantee the payment of your interest, on the bonds of the English loan, would that induce you to delay the sending of your report for a few days?"
"Not for an hour," he replied firmly.
"You have no kindness, you have no heart!" she declared passionately.
"What has heart to do with it?" he rejoined. "I am out here with a commission from my government. I must fulfill it, apart from any personal feeling I might have."
"You would talk like this if you were in love with me?" she demanded.
"With more regret, perhaps," he acknowledged, "but to the same effect."
They heard the wireless in the next room brought suddenly to a close. Louise rose to her feet. The color seemed to be drained from her cheeks.
"You are a hard man, Jasper," she complained bitterly. . . .
That night Slane slept with his door locked and bolted, and his seldom-used revolver by his side. Once, during the hours of darkness, he leaned forward in his bed, his candlestick in his hand, watching the door handle turn in vain. For the rest of the night he slept.
* * * * *
SELM, according to a certain section of the English press, was a moribund and a decadent country. Nevertheless, there is something impressive always about an ancient kingdom in which the machinery of State is still alive. It was scarcely an audience to which Slane was admitted in the great reception room of the palace; it was almost a council.
The King, even in his brilliant uniform an unassuming and delicate figure, sat at the end of the oval table. On his right sat General Ferastor; on his left, his Chief of Staff; opposite. Prince Radwig, the Prime Minister. Sir Robert and Slane were offered high-backed chairs of great size a little removed from the table. The King, who had shaken hands warmly with Slane upon his presentation, opened the proceedings by introducing him to the others. The Prime Minister welcomed him in colorless fashion, but with a reasonable show of cordiality. The General and his Chief of Staff, on the other hand, were barely civil.
"Sir Jasper Slane," the King explained to his councillors, "is a special envoy from the Foreign Office in London, and arrived here to act in conjunction with our friend Sir Robert. He has, I believe, something to say to us."
Slane rose to his feet, and approached the table.
"Your Majesty," he began, "I can tell you all I have to say in very few words. A little more than a week ago, I was sent for by a high official in our Foreign Office, and, as an ex-member of its Intelligence Department, I was asked to investigate the presence in London, together with a small party of Russian financiers, of Prince Francis of Selm, Your Majesty's brother, and, I understand, the pretender to the throne."
Ferastor moved uneasily in his place.
"The question of succession?"
The King held out his hand.
"It is our wish," he said, "that Jasper is not interrupted."
"I came to the conclusion," Slane went on, "that Prince Francis, in collaboration with General Ferastor, and with the aid of a large grant of money from his foreign friends, was engaged in a plot to force Your Majesty to abdicate, and to obtain for himself the throne of Selm. I asked myself, naturally, what inducement he had been able to offer his associates to engage their aid, and I was sent here to find out. I entered your kingdom. Sir, from the north, and I have come through the regions of Kull and Terbesch."
"There was supposed to be oil there," the Prime Minister remarked. "Some Russians came and spent a fortune searching for it. They broke up their machinery, and went away in disgust."
"They did nothing of the sort," Slane replied coolly. "To use an American term, they bluffed. They hid their machinery, which is in perfectly good condition, and I have no doubt they have plenty more on the way. There is oil enough in the district to pay your debts —the debts of the country, I mean—ten times over."
"It is impossible!" the Prime Minister gasped.
"It is true," Jasper Slane reiterated, returning to his chair.
Sir Robert took his place.
"Your Majesty," he said, "our special envoy has explained his share in this business, and I shall now proceed to address you according to instructions received this morning from England. You are seriously in debt to my country, and the matter is one which has almost led to strained diplomatic relations. I make you this offer: Sign me an option upon these oil-producing lands according to the map which I shall, in due course, present to you. I am instructed by my government to tell you that according to the terms of the treaty, which, in anticipation of your reply, is now being drawn up, we shall exact from you simply the amount of your debt, the arrears of interest, and nothing more. The rest can go to your revenue, and, furthermore, my country will be willing to extend a payment of your debt until the oil wells are. sunk, and everything is in order. The capital to run them will naturally be provided by us, and we will also advance the money owing to your Army and Ministers."
"What!" the General exclaimed, springing to his feet.
"What did you say?" the Chief of Staff demanded eagerly.
"My government is prepared to advance everything necessary to pay the debts owing to the officers of the State and Army, and to put your public services in proper shape, on the security of the options I shall ask for," Sir Robert declared. "Your Majesty, I beg you now for your earnest attention. Prince Francis is already on his way here. He is expecting the help of the Army, which he is proposing to bribe with the money produced from either selling outright or giving an absolute option upon these oil lands to a dangerous nation. Your Majesty, will you put it to General Ferastor, will you put it to his Chief of Staff, will you put it to your Prime Minister, with whom do they throw in their lot?"
There was a crash of fists upon the table. The General twirled his mustache fiercely.
"If Prince Francis crosses the frontier," he threatened, "he will cross it to find himself a prisoner."
The Chief of Staff was equally bombastic.
"The honor of the Army," he declared, wondering how long it would take him to telephone to the frontier—"is unswervingly pledged to Your Majesty's support."
That was the real end of Jasper Slane's mission to Selm, although technically it concluded a month later when the Gazette announced that His Majesty the King had given permission to Sir Jasper Slane, Bart., to accept from the King of Selm the Order of the Golden Cross of that country, for important services rendered.</story>