<story title="THE BATTLE OF THE SUITES" date="1933">
FROM the first moment Gossett disliked and yet was fascinated by the man. Disliked the bland smoothness of him, the hairless face, the childlike complexion, the carefully chosen, ingenuous words. At a chance remark the smoothness of him had suddenly disappeared, his rosy cheeks had puckered up, his eyes had narrowed. He was like the disinterred satyr of a pagan, sung-but-forgotten, posterity. Then a moment later he was Mr. Augustus Merrilies, who came from God knows where and who fenced all the time about his mission like a man living in the shadow of mysterious things. Gossett pulled himself together.
"Mr. Merrilies," he said pleasantly, "you have occupied my best office chair for a quarter of an hour. At any moment another client may arrive and you have told me nothing. If I can help you, I want to. If you have business to put before me, I shall be glad to consider it; but my time, although it may not be worth much, is too valuable to be wasted in generalities."
The little man made a movement as though to reach for his brown Homburg hat which lay on the carpet by his side. He checked himself, however, and looked steadily across at Gossett.
"My trouble, Mr. Gossett, is a simple one," he acknowledged. "What exactly is your present connection with Scotland Yard? Mr. Littledale told me that you could answer that question better than he could. Before I offer you further confidences, I wish to be assured of your complete independence."
"There is no shadow of connection," Gossett said firmly, "between my small establishment here and the national institution of Scotland Yard."
Mr. Augustus Merrilies flicked a morsel of dust from his sleeve and his eyes, fixed upon Gossett's, were suddenly the eyes of a ferret, twisting, compelling, consuming.
"Supposing I tell you a criminal secret; how long would it be before Scotland Yard was on my tracks?"
"If you are a criminal," was the blunt reply, "I don't want you here. If you are suspected of being a criminal and seek for aid in escaping the law, I will help you to the best of my ability. I do not deal with self-confessed criminals. I don't think I can speak plainer than that."
"I don't think you can," the other admitted. "Very well, then, this is my commission. There are forty pounds for you if you attempt it and eighty pounds if you succeed. Do not think that I am foolish with money, because I am not, but Mr. Littledale says that if anyone can succeed you can, and if you succeed, eighty pounds will not be too much."
"You're not asking me to get an option on the Crown jewels or anything of that sort, are you?" Gossett enquired.
"I am not. I am asking you to visit Emmeline, Countess of Blessbury and induce her, by any means which present themselves to you, to sell a curious yellow emerald which is in her possession."
"But I don't want a curious yellow emerald," Gossett objected.
"Of course you don't," his visitor snapped. "Some one else does, though, and if he doesn't get it, there's going to be trouble. Very serious trouble. I gather that your professional inclinations, Mr. Gossett, are against any serious infractions of the law. Very well then. I want to tell you this. If the woman I have spoken of refuses to sell that emerald, then some day or other she will be killed. There will be no chance of escape. She will be killed. And if the next of kin refuses to sell it, he or she will be killed too. You should listen to me earnestly, Mr. Gossett. I am just a poor tradesman from down Wapping way, but there are things which I have some to know, and this is one of them. I am spending my own money and I come to you in order to save bloodshed."
"Sounds very philanthropic," Gossett murmured.
"Fifty thousand pounds is the price the man in the background is willing to pay for that emerald," Mr. Augustus Merrilies went on, "and, to leave off beating about the bush, there will be a commission to you of one per cent. if you succeed, apart from the eighty pounds."
Malcolm Gossett was suddenly more serious. He had not associated his strange visitor with such a sum of money.
"Who is there who wants to spend fifty thousand pounds upon jewellery nowadays?" he asked incredulously.
"What does that matter?" was the suave reply. "There is someone. I can assure you of that. You are foolish not to see that there is money in this commission which I am offering to you. Do I look like a millionaire? I am a small tradesman in an East End neighbourhood. I am not one of those who give forty pounds away for nothing."
"If you are a small tradesman in an East End neighbourhood," Gossett asked, "how is it that you have come into touch with people who are willing to pay fifty thousand pounds for a single jewel?"
"I trade with the East," was the cryptic reply.
"I thought the East," Gossett observed, "was more often a seller of jewels than a buyer."
Mr. Augustus Merrilies rose to his feet.
"I propose to call upon you at the same time tomorrow," he announced. "You will acquaint me then with the decision of the Countess of Blessbury."
"If she decides to sell," Gossett asked, "will the money be there in cash?"
"Any hour, any minute," was the confident reply.
The Countess of Blessbury turned out to be unexpectedly easy of access. On sending up his card to her flat in Cadogan Square, Gossett was only asked to wait a few minutes and was then admitted. She was a remarkably pretty blonde American, indulging in her first widowhood.
"I don't understand your card," she said, looking at Gossett curiously, "so I thought it best to see you. You announce yourself as 'Late of Scotland Yard.' You have nothing to do with the police now, have you?"
"Nothing whatever," Gossett assured her. "I am a humble follower in the footsteps of your own Pinkerton, with a slight complex against the law rather than for it."
"A private detective?"
"I might be called that."
"Have I done anything wrong?" she asked, laughing.
"No, but you own a yellow emerald."
She looked at him with wondering eyes.
"Why shouldn't I?" she demanded. "I have a lot of odds and ends of jewellery, of course. Mostly heirlooms, worse luck."
"Is the yellow emerald an heirloom?"
She shook her head.
"No. Gerald, my late husband's cousin, brought it home from India. I don't like it very much."
"You wouldn't mind selling it then."
She raised her eyebrows curiously.
"Isn't that queer?" she murmured.
"Isn't what queer?"
"You're the second person who's tried to buy the yellow emerald from me within twenty-four hours."
"You didn't sell it?"
She shook her head.
"I am no good at business," she confessed. "I referred the jeweller to my lawyer."
"But your lawyer may not know the value," Gossett pointed out.
"Neither do I. Mr. Gresham, he's the lawyer, can find out. It seems to me that after all the taxes have been paid, we shall be glad of the money."
"How much do you expect to get for it?"
"It depends," she answered, "who wants to buy it."
"Would fifty thousand pounds seem a large sum to you?"
"Enormous," she gasped. "No one in their senses would dream of giving it."
"You would sell it for that?"
"Certainly I would," she assented, "unless the trustees or the executors or any other silly people like that tried to object."
"You haven't a copy of your late husband's will, have you?" he asked.
"Why on earth do you think that I should keep such a gloomy document?" she replied.
"If I saw it," he told her, "I could tell whether you had a right to sell it or not."
"And your client would give—"
"I pledge myself to nothing," he interrupted, "but he has told me that he would give you fifty thousand pounds."
She moved to the telephone.
"Come back at seven o'clock," she begged, "and we shall have a look at the will together and a cocktail."
It appeared that the late Lord Blessbury had been dead for over a year, which probably accounted for the fact that his widow received Gossett, when he called soon after seven o'clock, in a very charming smoke-coloured negligée and insisted upon making the cocktails herself, according to the old-fashioned recipe of two thirds gin and one third French vermouth. The will lay on the table by her side but she did not at first offer to show it to her visitor.
"The yellow emerald," she told him, however, "is not amongst the entailed jewels. Have you brought me my fifty thousand pounds?"
"I'm afraid the affair has not progressed quite so far as that," he told her. "My client is calling tomorrow morning to know if the sale is possible. He assured me that if it was, the money would be forthcoming at once."
She gave a little sigh of satisfaction.
"It will be quite a wonderful thing for me," she assured him. "Of course, when everything is cleared up, there will be plenty of money but fifty thousand pounds cash like that will make all the difference."
"It seems to me to be a ridiculous price for one stone," Gossett observed. "How is it set, Lady Blessbury? Do you ever wear it?"
"I never have done," she admitted. "You see, my husband only succeeded three years ago and it came to him with the rest of the things his cousin, the late Earl, had collected in India. Would you like to see it?"
"Immensely."
She rang the bell, and, with the butler and another man whom she sent for to be in attendance, they made their way into a smaller apartment at the rear of the house. In the corner of the room was the door to the safe. She disappeared for a moment and came out with a plain wooden box in her hand. It opened with a spring and inside was a rather dull-looking stone of deep orange yellow. She rubbed it lightly on her gown, however, and it began to glow with a dull sudden fire.
"It's quaint," Gossett observed, after a brief examination, "but I shouldn't call it attractive."
She replaced it in the box and locked up the safe.
"Neither should I," she answered. "Not half so attractive as fifty thousand pounds!"
She led him back into the larger room and they finished their cocktails. Gossett glanced towards the will.
"I suppose your title is clear enough?" he asked.
"The whole of the jewellery was left to me," she assured him.
"And there was no particular mention of this yellow atrocity?"
She was silent. She evidently found the question annoying.
"Why must you ask me that?" she protested.
"It seemed natural."
She fidgeted for a moment with her fingers, then she flung herself back in her chair and looked at him defiantly.
"Read for yourself," she told him. "It is at the bottom of page two."
Gossett picked up the will and easily found the paragraph.
With regard to the rare and very curious yellow emerald which it is understood was presented to my late cousin by an Indian potentate, whose name was never revealed, my advice to my wife would be not to dispose of this until she has made certain enquiries through our agents in India as to the source through which it came. I desire to offer this advice only to prevent any trouble that might arise later, and I do not wish to make it in any way binding upon my wife, in case she chooses to disregard it and sell the gem. I have no definite reason for believing that it came into the family treasures in any but an orthodox manner.
Gossett laid down the will. She had sprung to her feet and was standing by his side, with her hand resting upon his shoulder. Gossett was looking very thoughtful indeed.
"Tell me what you are thinking," she begged.
"I was thinking," he confided, "that a present of a stone worth fifty thousand pounds must be a very unusual thing, even amongst Indian Princes."
"My husband's cousin was a very unusual man out there," she declared. "He had great power and influence and there is no certainty that it was a gift. The advice does not prevent my selling it, does it?"
"Not legally," he replied.
"If there is to be any trouble," she pointed out, "it is upon me it will fall. I shall take the risk. To-morrow I shall expect to hear from you. You won't be horrid, will you, and back out?" she asked him, her hair brushing his cheek as she leaned forward to look into his eyes.
"It is scarcely my business to interfere," he assured her. "I am only an agent in the matter..."
It was a quarter to eight when he parked his car, mounted the stairs and, opening the door of his office with his latchkey, reached out for the switch of the electric light. It was ten minutes to ten when he sat up on the floor with a groan, aware of a frantic headache and a queer odour of mingled sandalwood and some heavy narcotic hanging about the room. The light had been kindly turned on for him, and by his side, in a neat little pile, were the contents of all his pockets with nothing missing. There was also a square piece of paper on which was printed in his own violet ink:
You are warned to keep away from Blessbury House and to have nothing more to do with the purchase or sale of the Blessbury Yellow Emerald.
In a very irritated frame of mind and with the remains of his headache still troubling him, Malcolm Gossett received the next morning the expected visit of Mr. Augustus Merrilies. The latter had hurried up the two flights of stairs and was consequently out of breath, but he was still able to ask the crucial question.
"She will sell the emerald?"
"She will sell the emerald, all right," Gossett replied with a sour smile. "You had better take the fifty thousand pounds with you and go and fetch it. If you take my advice, you'll wrap up your head in cotton wool afterwards."
A rapid change of expression transformed the appearance of Mr. Augustus Merrilies. His smooth skin seemed all puckered up, his mouth wobbled, his eyes almost disappeared in creases of fat.
"Something has happened?" he gasped.
"Something happened, all right," Gossett acknowledged grimly. "I did your errand with Lady Blessbury, she agreed to sell for the fifty thousand, I came back here to lock up, and that was the end of me for a couple of hours."
"What is this that you say?" Mr. Augustus Merrilies demanded.
"Some one must have got into my office," Gossett went on, "waited for me in the darkness, clapped a hideous anaesthetic over my nostrils directly I entered, searched my pockets and left me lying on my own carpet with this little message."
Augustus Merrilies' fingers were trembling so that he was barely able to hold the square of paper which Gossett passed over. He read it, however, with consternation.
"The others are here!" he groaned.
"If it was 'the others' who visited me last night, they certainly are here," Gossett acknowledged, "and to be frank with you, Mr. Merrilies, I don't want anything more to do with them or your beastly emerald. Five hundred pounds is a very nice little fee to earn, but I like a whole skin. If what happened last night is a foretaste of what I'm going to have when I handle the damned emerald, I don't mind telling you as man to man that I'm off the whole business. I'll keep the forty pounds. I consider I earned it. But you can go around and get the emerald yourself from her ladyship. She's expecting you at Blessbury House and I daresay a few others are expecting you afterwards."
The would-be trafficker in yellow emeralds became a depressing sight. He buried his face in his hands and rocked slowly backwards and forwards in his chair. There were beads of perspiration upon his forehead and even his knees trembled.
"I am a shopkeeper," he moaned. "A ships' chandler, shopkeeper, and occasionally I do commissions for some of my friends from foreign parts. It is all in a peaceable way, however. I have never been in trouble with the police, I have never made an enemy amongst all the Eastern cut-throats who do their little business with me. For once I became ambitious. I thought beyond myself. There was so much to be gained. Now the others have come. It is all spoilt."
"It's spoilt, all right," Gossett agreed. "Pull yourself together, Mr. Merrilies. The yellow emerald is in Lady Blessbury's possession. She is willing to part with it for fifty thousand pounds. It will take you five minutes to get there, unless you have to call somewhere to get the money. Then it may take you a little! longer. I should advise you to be off."
"Yes, and half an hour afterwards ready for the cemetery," Mr. Augustus Merrilies moaned. "I shall be like you, Mr. Gossett. You are a wise man. You know that your skin is worth more than money. I shall resign too. I'm going back to my shop."
He picked up his hat from the floor and held a pudgy hand across the table, a hand which Gossett somewhat reluctantly clasped.
"Good morning, sir," he said. "Perhaps I should not have come to you. I think I did not tell Mr. Littledale enough. I wanted to be safe. I am not a fighter. The others can have the yellow emerald for all I care."
"It's a rotten-looking jewel, anyway," Gossett assured him consolingly, as he shambled off.
A more or less busy morning passed on, unmarked by any disturbing incident. Mr. Gossett's headache cleared up, and the idea of an apéritif and a quiet chop somewhere in the neighbourhood was beginning to present its usual attraction. His office boy entered with a highly glazed card and an awed expression.
"There's a Prince to see you, sir," he announced.
Gossett took the card and studied it.
H.R.H. The Maharajah of Cornpoer,
Prince Ali of Mysore.
"Show the gentleman in," he directed.
Gossett, who was not very well up in such matters, suspected to be confronted by a personage wearing a jewelled turban and at least partial Oriental robes. A slim and elegant young man presented himself in a dark blue suit and wearing an Eton tie. He was beautifully dressed and turned out, his smile was ingratiating and his English perfect.
"Mr. Gossett, I believe?" he said. "May I beg for a few minutes of your time?"
"Certainly," Gossett acquiesced, a trifle nonplussed. "Sit down, won't you?"
The young man handed his hat, cane and gloves to the office boy with a royal gesture. The latter departed, stupefied, and the Prince sank gracefully into the client's chair.
"It is possible, Mr. Gossett," he said, and the latter realised for the first time what the real Oxford accent was, "that you have already surmised the object of my visit."
"I regret to say that at present I have no idea unless by chance it concerns the matter of a yellow emerald," he went on quickly.
"The yellow emerald certainly," the Prince acknowledged. "You permit me to smoke?"
"With pleasure," Gossett assented.
The Prince lit a cigarette which he withdrew from an elegant platinum and gold case, rose to his feet and gracefully offered the same to Gossett.
"I feel more at home when I smoke," this somewhat surprising visitor confided, as he resumed his seat. "I was distressed to hear, Mr. Gossett," he went on, "that, while acting in my interests last night, you were subjected to a wicked and unpardonable assault."
"Your interests?" Gossett repeated. "Of course, that makes the affair more interesting. I thought I was acting for a Mr. Augustus Merrilies."
The other smiled apologetically.
"My mistake was in going to such a personage," he admitted. "If I had had the privilege of knowing you, sir, I should have come to you direct."
"Pardon me," Gossett said, "but I wish to have this matter quite clear. It is you, Prince, who wish to acquire the yellow emerald?"
"It is my fervent desire."
"Then why not go to Lady Blessbury yourself, hand over the money and receive the emerald? She is only too anxious to sell."
The Prince waved away a little cloud of smoke with which he was surrounded.
"There are some transactions," he confided, "which cannot be carried out with so much simplicity. My life, for instance, is a matter of the greatest importance to several millions of my subjects in India. For their sakes there are certain risks which I must avoid."
"I see your point," Gossett remarked drily. "The man who collects the emerald from Lady Blessbury is, in a way of speaking, 'asking for it.'"
"It is perhaps a brave man's task," the Prince admitted, "but it is one which would be well rewarded. That little rascal, Augustus Merrilies; had, I believe, the impertinence to speak of a one per cent. commission. You must forgive the avarice of a shopkeeper Mr. Gossett. My idea would be fifty thousand pounds which I would hand you to pay for the jewel and five thousand pounds for yourself when you delivered it to me at some fixed rendezvous."
"That certainly sounds better," Gossett acknowledged, "But may I ask you one question?"
"Certainly," was the gracious reply.
"I have read of your kingdom and of your treasures. Why, with such an enormous store of jewels as you already possess, are you so anxious to obtain this yellow emerald of somewhat ordinary appearance?"
The Prince's fingers toyed with his little black moustache.
"A pertinent but not altogether a wise question, Mr. Gossett," he said. "The yellow emerald came from my country. It is numbered amongst the precious jewels there and for certain reasons its return is very much to be desired. The question is, are you prepared to accept my commission?"
Gossett considered for several moments. Five thousand pounds was a marvellous fee but of little use if a portion of it had to go in funeral expenses.
"I should almost suggest," he ventured, "that this is a case to hand over to Scotland Yard. Why not buy the jewel from Lady Blessbury and then land over the transport of it to the police?"
The young man shivered, very delicately but with genuine horror.
"Mr. Gossett," he said gently, "there are certain matters connected with our caste and, what you might term, our superstitions, which you could scarcely be expected to understand. The course which you suggest would be impossible."
Gossett reflected further for several moments.
"You agree with me, I suppose, Prince," he said, "that the person who leaves Blessbury House with that jewel in his possession runs certain risks?"
"He runs a grave risk," was the frank admission. "Hence the five thousand pounds."
Gossett relapsed into a further brief interval of consideration. Then he made up his mind quite suddenly.
"If you will let your secretary ring me up at four o'clock," be promised, "you shall know my decision."
The young man smiled and rose to his feet. He held out his hand to Gossett.
"I know that you are a brave man, sir," he said. "I feel quite convinced that you will accept the mission."
Gossett returned from lunch, however, without having fully made up his mind. He had scarcely lit his first cigarette when his office boy knocked at the door and entered. There was a scared expression upon his face. He passed the card which he was holding directly to his master.
"There's another on 'em, sir," he announced. "I thought it was the same back again, but I dunno."
"Show him in," Gossett directed.
The boy obeyed and Gossett also received a shock. The young man who came in, smiling and imperturbable, resembled the visitor of the morning to an extraordinary degree. The only difference seemed to be that he was wearing a dark grey suit instead of blue, and a Harrow tie. He shook hands with Gossett, relapsed into the client's chair and began deliberately to take off his gloves.
"It is very good of you to see me without an appointment, Mr. Gossett," he said. "You can perhaps divine the reason for my visit."
"Something to do with a yellow emerald?" Gossett suggested.
"You are correct," the visitor acquiesced. "I have the misfortune in this instance to be second to my brother. He has, I believe, already approached you with regard to the purchase of the jewel."
"He has," Gossett admitted.
"I feel convinced I am right," the Prince declared, with a flash of his dark eyes, "when I say that you declined to deal with him."
"Well, you're neither right nor wrong," Gossett replied. "I promised to let him know at four o'clock."
The Prince breathed a sigh of relief.
"Then I am in time," he murmured.
"You're in time, all right," Gossett assented, "but in time for what?"
"To prevent your committing an act of gross injustice."
"Look here," Gossett remonstrated. "I flatter myself I'm as clear-headed as most people, but I confess you've got me guessing. If you or your brother want that ugly emerald so much, why don't you go yourself or send a Bond Street jeweller in to purchase it from Lady Blessbury? Why do both of you come and seek to employ an almost unknown private agent?"
The Prince shivered very much in the same way as his predecessor.
"In the first place, Mr. Gossett," he said, "if an accident were to happen to me, it would be a disaster for millions of my subjects."
"Stop a moment," Gossett begged. "That's exactly what your brother said to me."
"The situation for the moment is the same for both of us. Is it possible, Mr. Gossett, that you do not know the story?"
"It's more than possible," Gossett declared. "It's a fact. I don't know what either of you wants that yellow emerald for."
The Prince sighed.
"It is no secret in my own kingdom," he remarked, "but, after all, why should you have heard of it? We are not a country of newspapers and gossips. My people too have a sense of reverence. It may have been whispered in the bazaars but to have printed it would have been an outrage."
"Take it easy and tell me," Gossett begged. "It's only a quarter to four, as you can see."
The Prince leaned forward in his chair. He was very grave indeed.
"It needs, after all, so few words, Mr. Gossett," he said. "When my father died last year, a situation arose which has never been known in my country before. My brother and I were his only two sons; we were twins. To whom then should go the kingdom?"
Gossett nodded understandingly.
"I can quite understand that there were difficulties," he sympathised.
"After many long discussions," the Prince continued, "the matter was referred to the High Priest of our kingdom, a very holy man with no leaning towards either of us. He took a month to think it out, and then he decided that the throne should go to the one of us two who should bring back the eye of the Sun Buddha, which had been thoughtlessly and injudiciously given away by my father to a nobleman of England. My brother and I were apprised of this decision on the same day. We started at once for England. We are here. The eye of the Sun Buddha is, we know, in the possession of this Lady Blessbury. My brother and I both want it. We have our suites here to protect our interests. Is there anything more I can tell you?"
"Only this," Gossett replied. "Can you give me any reason why I should favour you more than your brother or your brother more than you?"
The Prince reflected for some time.
"There is no reason," he acknowledged, "but I should warn you of this—that should you favour my brother and telephone him at four o'clock that you are buying the emerald for him, someone of my suite will at once take toll of your life."
"Someone," said the Prince, "will take a toll of your life."
"I see," Gossett murmured. "And in the event of any deciding to get the emerald for you, one of your brother's suite will then put me out of the way!"
"The situation would appear to work out like that," the Prince admitted. "It, however, is redeemed by one contingency. There is just a chance that you might escape. In that case, the emerald would find its way into the hands of one of us and the wretched uncertainty of this business would be at an end."
Gossett clasped his head for a moment. The whole situation was confusing.
"On what sort of terms are you with your brother?" he ventured to enquire.
The Prince's silky black eyebrows were slowly lifted. He looked at his questioner in surprise.
"The very best," he answered. "We spend a great part of every day together. We travelled over by different steamers and we are staying at different hotels, but there are two reasons for this. One of them is that it is absolutely necessary for both of on to insist upon premier rights; the other is the slight difficulty connected with our suites."
Gossett nodded understandingly.
"Jealousy?" he murmured.
"It is a far more important matter to the various members of our native suites," the Prince confided, "who shall be declared Maharajah of our kingdom than it is to ourselves. My brother and I have become largely Europeanised. Either of us could support exile with dignity and pleasure. To the members of our suites, however, it is different. If they are attached to the reigning Maharajah, they become immediately people of great consequence and their position is of countless benefit to their relations and dependents."
"I begin to appreciate the situation more every moment," Gossett declared. "This is really a battle, then, between your suites rather than yourselves."
The Prince smiled amiably.
"You are an exceedingly intelligent man, Mr. Gossett," he admitted.
"One more question and I will see what I can do," Gossett promised. "I still do not see exactly where I come in. Why bother about a third person at all?"
"I will endeavour to explain. The yellow emerald is part of the sacred relic. When it is recovered, it will be handed over to the High Priest himself. There are many ways in which it cannot be recovered. For one thing, no blood of its present owner or guardian must be spilt in its actual acquisition by either my brother or myself or anyone of our blood. The intervention of a third person is therefore necessary. I was recommended," the Prince continued, "to a Mr. Littledale—one of your famous lawyers. My brother, on the advice of a member of his suite, consulted a person who is really only a bogus shopkeeper—a certain Augustus Merrilies. Mr. Littledale recommended me to you as a likely person to deal with the business. Mr. Augustus Merrilies was also told to approach you, as I have done myself."
"I see," Gossett murmured. "Your methods naturally sound a little roundabout to a Westerner but I can understand that you have been a good deal handicapped by conventions. May I without offence make a proposition to you?"
"With great pleasure, Mr. Gossett."
"If my suggestion is a liberty, do not hesitate to tell me so at once. I wondered whether you and your brother would do me the honour of dining at any restaurant you might select at nine o'clock this evening. I will then discuss the matter with you both and do my best to satisfy you."
The Prince sighed.
"Mr. Gossett," he said, "my brother and I are well trained in the democracy of the West, and so far as we are concerned, it would give us great pleasure to accept your invitation. We are delighted to accept the hospitality of any English gentleman and to return it when he visits our country, but unfortunately there are the members of our suites. No one of my own suite, for instance, whose attendance I might command, would permit me to sit anywhere but on the right of my host. The same thing would apply to my brother's staff."
"Then why not," Gossett suggested, "come incognito and leave your suites behind you?"
"The idea appeals to me," the Prince admitted. "I will see my brother and if he consents, we will meet at the Milan Restaurant at nine o'clock this evening. You will understand that we shall be entirely incognito and nameless. I will now venture to take my leave," he concluded, rising. "Your proposition intrigues me greatly. I am convinced that my brother, who thinks always as I do, will feel the same emotion."
The Prince shook hands and took his leave.
For a single minute after the arrival of the two brothers in the foyer of the Milan Hotel, Gossett fancied that his scheme was doomed to failure. They stopped short at the sight of the very beautiful blonde lady who was standing by Gossett's side, and amongst the little train of their followers one or two at least, English military men by their appearance, hurried forward to whisper cautions to their august masters. Gossett himself always fancied that it was the faint smile at the corner of her beautiful lips, the cryptic lure of that single glance which she ventured in their direction which decided the matter. The two brothers waved back their followers, they advanced in dignified fashion towards their host, they accepted his carefully spoken introduction to the Countess of Blessbury. Gossett then took the bull by the horns.
"I fear, Prince," he said to his earlier acquaintance, "that your entourage and your brother's do not altogether approve of my plan. It seemed to me so sensible. The Countess is in possession of something which should, historically and religiously, find its way back to your country. It seemed to me that a little friendly discussion might simplify matters."
"I'm sure," Lady Blessbury murmured, with the sweetest of smiles, "that it would make me very unhappy to keep for a moment anything whose home was really in your country."
The Prince Ahmed bowed low. He got one in well ahead of his brother.
"It is only surprising, Countess," he said, "that all the jewels in India have not been laid at your feet."
Prince All came in a good second.
"Countess," he added, "we came to Europe—my brother and I—searching for the eye of a god and we find the eyes of a goddess."
"Mr. Gossett," Lady Blessbury murmured, "I think that I am going to like your two friends."
They dined, a partie carrée, sedately, with dignity but also with much gaiety, in a discreet corner carefully watched over by head waiters, by personal servants of the two Princes and occasionally in the background by an English A.D.C. When in due course, that is to say at half-past twelve, the sommelier tendered confused apologies for the non-production of further bottles of champagne, Prince Ahmed beckoned the A.D.C. towards him.
"Countess," he said, "you will permit that I present my aide-de-camp, Colonel Chalmers—the Countess of Blessbury—Mr. Malcolm Gossett."
Due civilities were exchanged. The Prince continued:
"The party pleases us, Chalmers. We wish to prolong it."
"Your Highness knows the stipulations of this ridiculous country of ours," the young man ventured.
"Too well," his royal master sighed. "See the manager at once, Chalmers. Engage a private room where we can dance and as many of the orchestra as are advisable. Have the same wine served there."
"Your Highness desires other guests?" the aide de camp enquired a little drily.
"Certainly not," was the cold retort. "You must not forget," the Prince went on, turning to his host and Lady Blessbury, "that my brother and I are very English. It is our intention to, as you say, make a night of it."
It was four mornings later when Gossett, fully recovered from his headache but intensely curious in view of the fact that he had received no further communication as to what might have happened to his royal friends, received a visit from Colonel Chalmers.
"I'm afraid you don't recognise me, Mr. Gossett," the latter said, re-introducing himself. "My name is Chalmers. I was bear-cubbing one of those young Indian Princes the other night, and I'm afraid I wasn't too agreeable about your party."
"I remember you perfectly," Gossett said, waving his visitor to a chair. "I'm sorry if I offended against etiquette in any way, but those two young men consulted me and I had to give them the best advice I could."
Chalmers opened his pocketbook and handed over a crisp little packet.
"Five thousand-pound notes," he announced, counting them over, "His Royal Highness desired me to express to you his sincere acknowledgment of your very brilliant solution of his difficulties."
"Capital!" Gossett exclaimed. "They came to terms with the Countess then?"
Chalmers smiled.
"You have not read your newspapers this morning," he observed.
"Quite right," Gossett admitted. "I haven't."
"His Royal Highness Prince Ahmed, my particular charge," Colonel Chalmers narrated, "was married yesterday afternoon by special licence to Lady Blessbury. I have just come back from seeing them off at Tilbury."
"And the yellow emerald?"
"Needless to say, they have taken it with them." Gossett leaned back in his chair and smiled complacently.
"Well, isn't that, after all, an excellent solution, Colonel?" he asked.
"It certainly justifies in an amazing way," Colonel Chalmers said, with unexpected seriousness, "the prophecy of the old High Priest. All through this trouble he has maintained that it would be a woman who should decide which of the two Princes became the lord of the country. Both of them proposed marriage to Lady Blessbury. She chose my master. She brings him the yellow emerald and he becomes Maharajah and monarch of the richest of the Indian States."
"These old chaps out there seem to know something, after all," Gossett remarked.
"And some of you young ones too," Colonel Chalmers said politely, as he rose to take his leave.</story>