<story title="THE THIRD SHOT" date="1938">
UNDER cover of my midday edition of the "Evening Standard," I watched the girl come sauntering up the long narrow passage between the tables to the place where I was seated. Everyone stared at her. She had the air of one who has recently arrived from a journey, but her clothes possessed cut and distinction. Her hat and veil were distinctly Fifth Avenue, and her nails had just that exotic touch of pink that only the American manicurists seem able to produce.
When she reached the end of the room, instead of swinging round to the entrance doors, she stopped in front of my table.
"How do you do. Captain Lyson?" she asked affably.
I promptly lowered my paper and rose to my feet. I realised her significance, but for the moment I was unable to place her. She was extra ordinarily young, but she had been over lavish with all those little touches which the fashions of the moment seem to demand. Her eye lashes had been tampered with, al though they would have been just as attractive untouched. Her lips were becarmined clumsily, but her beautifully shaped mouth still retained its charm. Her hair, however, remained natural, a beautiful corn color, and her sleepy eyes were just the right shade of brown.
"Yes, my name is Lyson," I admitted.
"I was at Daddy Maine's party the other night." she reminded me.
"Of course, I remember. Won't you sit down?" I invited, still secretly perplexed.
She glanced over her shoulder out into the courtyard. The waiter held a chair for her and she sank grace fully into it.
"How long does it take to get here from Southampton?" she asked.
"About two hours," I told her. "Are you expecting anyone on this boat?"
"I'm afraid so." she confided. "I had word last night some of the Rawson boys were coming along, and I'm afraid they'll make it ugly for Ed if they do. Ed's my partner, you know. He's in the show with me."
I recognised her then. She was a recent importation from the States and had drifted from Dorchester House to a well-known cabaret, where she was doing dancing and songs.
"Of course," I said. "You are Myra, aren't you, and your partner's name is Ed?"
She smiled approvingly. "That's right. Myra and Ed. Of the Café de Lyon Cabaret."
"Will you have some coffee?" I invited.
She shook her head reluctantly. "I guess I'd better not stay around just now." she said "I'm scared about the crowd that's coming over. There might be a shooting. Ed went down to Waterloo to check them off from the special. He ought to have been back an hour ago."
She had moved her chair so as to be able to see into the court; suddenly she sprang to her feet. She waved her hand desperately at a young man who had just driven up in a blue two-seater. "That's Ed!" she exclaimed. "You'll excuse me?"
A certain fear that she might return with Ed in tow led me to call for my bill. My old friend Jules looked at me curiously as I signed.
"Monsieur a bien dejeune?" he inquired.
"Comme toujours."
He lingered for a moment. It was obvious there was something he would have liked to say if he had dared. In the end he made his little bow and departed. The omnipotent Louis, however, when I reached his desk, was less reticent. He glanced up and down the room and leaned forward. "May I be permitted a word of advice, my young friend?" he asked.
"Of course. Louis. Go ahead."
"The young lady—"
"Very chic," I interrupted. "Myra Grey. Dancing now at the Café de Lyon. Myra and Ed. you know."
"Monsieur is a friend." Louis said gravely, patting the back of my hand. "I give him serious advice. Do not encourage the acquaintance of Mademoiselle. Just now, at any rate, she is not a good person to know. Please remember that."
I was puzzled. Louis' advice was good to follow at any time but it seemed strangely given, in the circumstances.
"What's the matter with the child?" I asked. "She can scarcely be out of her teens."
"Perhaps not." was the grim reply. "There are two detectives in this room, though, who are doing all they can to keep her and her boy friend in sight. He is wanted in New York. They are a tough crowd. Captain. They do not belong to the places they are going. Do not be led into joining any of their parties. Keep away! Take my advice. Captain Lyson."
"From what I have seen of Ed." I observed as I turned away, "I probably shall."
I have a fancy when dining at a restaurant where dancing is a part of the evening's amusement for sitting in the background and issuing forth at reasonable intervals. Julie Louis' attractive daughter, preferred to sit at a table on the dancing floor and plunge into the thick of it the moment the music started. I gave in to her as I generally did, and we were on our feet most of the time. Julie was one of the most delightful partners in the world. The music, too, was world-famous. I enjoyed every minute of it and yet, when the signal was given from the orchestra that the cabaret was about to commence. I led her back to our table and sank into my chair with a sigh of satisfaction. She looked at me searchingly with her head on one side.
"You like no longer to dance with me?" she demanded.
"Julie, my darling, there is nothing in the world I enjoy more," I assured her. "I thought it pleasant to sit down because I am still with you, and next to dancing with you I like to look at you. Incidentally. I have been on my feet all day."
Julie, although she loved to dance, loved also to eat, and for a time we devoted ourselves to a perfectly cooked sole colbert. A Spanish lady danced for us and met with a reasonable amount of appreciation. During the brief interval, the manager came across to pay his respects.
"You have a wonderful crowd tonight. Gustave." I observed.
He nodded. "We have a tum which is unique in all the world."
"The American couple?"
"Ed and Myra," he assented. "There has never been seen such dancing in London. But this new idea of theirs—well. I find it a little too much for me," he added deprecatingly. "They are introducing a novelty. For myself I am not so sure that it is what the people want."
"There is nothing in the changed performance. I trust, which makes it unsuitable for the young?"
Julie rapped my knuckles and Gustave smiled. "It is not that sort of affair." he assured me.
Julie heaved a delicate little sigh of disappointment.
Gustave was on the point of leaving us, but I called him back. I pointed to a very desirable table in the front row, a few yards from our own. "What fortunate couple are you keeping that for. Gustave?" I asked him.
"That table is kept for two gentlemen—strangers, but still very important people. You will see."
The cabaret continued. An attractive-looking Frenchwoman sang two or three songs. There was some freak pianoforte playing. Then the lights went up, the music crashed and dancing began again.
"All these shows," I observed to Julie as we loitered through a very slow foxtrot, "are monotonous."
"Did not Monsieur Gustave say that he had found a novelty for us?"
"He has perhaps the two most skilful dancers in the world from an acrobatic point of view," I acknowledged. "But unless they can invent a perfectly new dance they are not likely to have a very great success. The girl is extraordinarily beautiful. That might help, of course."
Julie drew a little away from me. "She is a friend of yours—yes?"
"I met her at one of those silly parties one goes to for a few minutes."
My partner looked at me severely. "I do not like it that you go to these night places alone and meet so many beautiful women."
She paused, then asked with a smile, "By the way, Just how old are you?"
"I am thirty-seven," I told her. "Eighteen years older than you."
She sighed with content. "To be thirty-seven is not to call oneself a Methuselah," she said. "I was afraid it might have been worse. It is because Father always says you are so trustworthy that I think of you as being older than you are."
"If we were in your little salon," I confided, "I should box your ears." She laughed gaily.
Just then the music paused. The familiar rattle took its place.
"Myra and Ed," I said.
The lights were growing dim. The dance orchestra had slipped away from their places. The music had changed its character. Two men glided into the vacant places at the table on the dancing floor which had I been empty all the evening. One was short and fat, with clean-shaven face, benevolent expression but a peculiar mouth. The other was thinner, a little gaunt, with high cheek bones. They both wore dinner coats and black ties. They were smoking rather over-sized cigars, and a bottle of champagne stood in the ice by their side.
"Our new neighbors," I whispered to Julie, "are scarcely worthy of their prominent position."
Julie was too occupied to take much notice of my remarks. The lowering of the lights and that clear staccato music was having its effect upon her.
Suddenly she gripped my wrist. Coming down the broad flight of stairs from the balcony floor was the strangest figure I had ever seen. It was a man—a young man—bent almost double, creeping down with long, slinking footsteps, pausing every now and then, glancing around fearfully.
His fair hair was plastered straight over his forehead, coming down almost to his eyebrows. His long fingers reached the stairs; sometimes as he paused in his descent he balanced himself leaning on the palm of one hand. As he drew nearer, one realised that he was giving an impression of a man in deadly fear. On the last few stairs his pace became slower. He hesitated before taking that last step on to the dancing floor.
There was a silence in the room which, after a few seconds, became absolutely uncanny. One could almost hear the pent-up anticipation, almost feel the excitement of the crowd. It resolved itself into a little gasping murmur—the indrawn breaths of many people.
With the spotlight focused upon her, the girl was coming slowly from the shadows behind our chairs. I had tried to tell Julie that she was beautiful, but I felt then that nothing I could have said was adequate. Her figure was the figure of a fairy. Her steps, miracles of graceful progress. She was smiling, but there was a faint expression of hunger in her eyes, a queer, stifled desire, a line almost of cruelty in that young but perfect mouth. Then, as she reached the edge of the dancing floor her arms were slowly outstretched. The man who had crawled his way down the stairs straightened himself—a long, lithe figure with greedy, deep-set eyes and satyr-like mouth.
The music suddenly changed. Even as they stood looking at one another, it became harshly passionate, with a murmuring voluptuous rhythm dying away underneath. They came together like a flash of lightning. Her arms were around his neck. He lifted her high off the floor. They were away at the other end of the room. Her feet, too, were joining in the riot of action. They danced. Such dancing.
"Ah, mais c'est ravissant!" I heard Julie's stifled whisper.
She was clutching my arm fiercely. The light of the room seemed to be coming and going, according to the movements of that frantic dance.
They passed sometimes with slow, passionate steps, sometimes in a whirl, the girl's lips parted, the light in her eyes matching the burning in his. Then the music grew slower.
When I realised that the end of the dance was coming, I felt what dozens of people told me afterwards that they, too, felt—a great relief. It was torturing to watch it was naked passion burst loose. Their footsteps were moving to a different tune. One felt that it was the end.
The music led the dancers to the last sobbing bar. Her arms were around his neck. She drew him towards the place where our two neighbors were seated. One arm unwound itself. They were preparing, as it seemed to me, to make their bow. Then from the table close to us came the sudden sound of a chair kicked away. There was the muffled report of a gun. The long arms of the dancer shot over his head. Two waiters rushed to hold him up. Myra's scream of horror rang out through the place. A pandemonium of voices beat against the ceiling. Those who were near saw the dark spot on his evening shirt slowly grow larger. They half carried, half dragged him up the stairs.
Gustave and half a dozen of his myrmidons blocked the way at the foot. There must be no rush. Gustave seemed trying to quiet the hysterical crowd. Suddenly there was again that strange rattle from somewhere behind the orchestra.
The music was playing the same staccato, elf-like harmony which had heralded the approach of the dancers. I felt my forehead and found it wet. Julie had her arms around my neck. We were both of us staring at the other flight of stairs down which, with the same slow stealthy movements, came the dancer.
A miracle had happened! The shirt he was wearing was un crumbled and unstained. Only his hair flopped about his face and almost covered his eyes. He paused for a moment to brush it away. A death-like silence seemed to have stolen throughout the place. With those strange, slinking steps once more he reached the floor.
There was a floating wave of perfume close to our chairs, a faint movement of skirts.
The girl had come out from the background. She passed our table, she passed the table where the two men had been seated—empty ever since the sound of that gun. She held out her arms She was across the floor with the same wonderful bound. She was in the air—she was being held close to his heart—she was lifted up—shaken passionately all in a few seconds. And then they danced.
The music resolved itself almost without our being able to trace the beginnings into one of the old fashioned Viennese waltzes. It grew faster and faster, became louder and louder, the dance wilder, but drowning everything else was the applause, which it seemed to me would never end even after the dance was over. Six times after they had climbed the stairs, the dancers came back.
The cheering went on. No one would go away. Gustave realised that the guests were still half-dazed. They needed an explanation.
"Ladies and gentlemen," he said, "we have presented to you to-night a dance dramatisation of a killing. The two gangsters were part of the show; the revolver was simply a revival of an old trick; the changed shirt and collar were waiting for our male performer at the top of the stairs. I feel that these explanations are due to you because of the astonishing interpretation given by my two artists which I do not mind telling you has been a revelation to all."
No such success as was achieved by Myra and Ed in their amazing turn had ever been vouchsafed to any cabaret performance, since night snows had become established in the West End of London. The Café de Lyon, almost in self-defence, doubled their prices, and even then every table in the place was booked for weeks and weeks ahead.
I never had any desire, however, to witness the performance again. Julie, with various friends, must have gone a dozen times. Even Louis on his crutches had himself transported there one Sunday night. Curiously enough, he shared a certain shrinking which I had felt from the first at the spectacle.
"It is too near reality," Louis decided. "The girl," he went on, "well, in effect she terrifies me! She is not acting. She feels it. There is no one like her upon the stage. But for myself my heart beats too fast I cannot watch her."
"You and I are of one mind, Louis," I muttered.
"Ever look up their dossiers down at the Yard?" he asked.
"I am not interested," I said.
"There is nothing definite against the girl except associations," Louis said, "but the man has a notch on his gun. He was very lucky to escape a murder trial."
Four days later I was finishing my luncheon, when I saw Myra coming slowly up the carpeted way towards my table. I had a newspaper propped up before me, but it was a useless subterfuge. I knew the exact moment when she paused in front of the table. I lowered my paper and rose to my feet mechanically. She looked at me and smiled slightly.
"You are the only man in London," she said, "who has not sent me a message of congratulation. Most of them—more than that."
"I scarcely thought," I replied, "that I knew you well enough."
She signalled to a waiter—there were half a dozen hanging round waiting for a word or a glance from her. She accepted a chair and sat down. I had no alternative but to resume my own seat.
"Would you like to know me better, my fierce friend?" she asked.
"Thank you, no," I answered. "That may sound rude, but I have a fancy that you are like me in one respect you are truthful."
She leaned back in her chair, her fingers tapping the tablecloth, her eyes searching for mine. She seemed somehow to diffuse an atmosphere for which I could find no words. "Say, you're scared of me." she declared.
I Jumped at the by-way of excuse. "It is true," I admitted. "I sit here even now in mortal terror. Is that bullet due for my chest?"
She turned her head lazily. Ed had followed her and was standing behind her. With his long hair, his sallow complexion and displeasing expression, he seemed to belong somehow to a foreign and unfriendly world.
"Say, you'd better meet Ed," she drawled, "Captain Lyson. You've no need to go gunning with him, Ed He's not walking down my street if he can help it."
"My fault we didn't meet at the party the other night," Ed remarked. "I was canned before we got there. Somehow over here the liquor don't seem so fierce but it goes to the spot a darn sight faster."
He was reaching out for a chair heedless of the lack of any invitation, but the girl stopped him with a lazy gesture. "Wait for me in the car," she enjoined.
He obeyed without demur. Left alone with me she edged her chair a little closer.
"He's common, Ed, isn't he?" she said sorrowfully.
"He is an amazing dancer," I observed.
"He learnt that on the sidewalk," she said. "Say, I saw you at the first night of our show."
"I was there," I admitted.
"Anything to say about it?"
"It was the most wonderful show of its sort I ever saw," I told her. "You are the most beautiful dancer I have ever seen. Ed is quite the best male dancer in the world."
"And then?" She tapped with her fingers upon the tablecloth.
"I like your finger-nails," I confided. "I think you must have brought your manicurist over with you."
The smile which had parted her lips faded. They quivered, became suddenly tremulous. I remembered that it was a child against whose spell I was fighting. She was looking down at her nails.
"We don't seem to get to understand one another very well, do we?" she complained. "I guess you English are about as slow as they said you were—or are you really scared of me, Captain Lyson?"
"Terrified to breath," I confessed. "I wish you would go away."
She laughed. "Listen. Do you know why we came to London?"
"Got into trouble in New York," I replied, not too amiably.
"We sure did," she admitted. "There was a guy who took the opposite line to you. He was crazy about me. Ed turned irritable, although it was no concern of his, and they started gunning. He got his—that poor fellow—and Ed very nearly got the chair. Anyway, it ended our show in New York. I Just wondered whether you had heard of it. Perhaps you're scared of Ed?"
"Perhaps I am," I agreed. "I don't like men who go gunning."
"If a man has a girl or thinks he has, he's got to keep her some way," Myra argued. "If Ed was the sort I could marry, perhaps he'd calm down. But I couldn't. Do you know how old I am? Sixteen," she confided. "It's time I knew what I wanted, isn't it?"
She was telling the truth. I was suddenly sure of it. She was little more than a child and yet all this woman's stuff was bubbling up in her.
I rose to my feet. "Look here, Miss Myra," I said. "I don't care how old you are. I don't care whether you marry Ed or not. I want you to leave me alone."
"I never ought to have come over with Ed," she sighed. "I feel that now. It's going to be difficult for me to go on." She rose unwillingly to her feet. "Ill go if you'll promise me one thing."
"All right," I replied. "What is it?"
"When I send a card, will you come and see our show once more?"
"I will," I promised.
She picked up her purse, favored me with a little nod and strolled off.
A table at the Café de Lyon in those days was worth a ten pound tip to any maître d'hotel attached to the place, but there was no hesitation when I presented the card which I had found in my room that morning. Julie and I were ushered to the same places we had occupied previously. This time, however, we were just units in a packed mass of West End sightseers. It was with the utmost difficulty that enough space had been kept for the performance. Dancing by the diners was out of the question, the place was jammed.
"I have never seen anything like this in my life," Julie cried.
"There has never been such a hit in my memory," I agreed. "I don't know why. The show is dramatic, of course, but it's rather horrible."
"It is exciting," Julie said in a low tone but with sparkling eyes.
I wished that I had never given the promise to come.
"I believe you are excited, too," Julie laughed. "You are so pale. But your eyes I like, to-night."
"I simply detest the whole show. The sooner it is over, the better I shall be pleased," I assured her.
Julie, very light-hearted and happy, chattered away and gradually I became more normal. Nevertheless, I shivered when I saw the two conspirators in their dinner jackets take their places near us. The lights grew dim One heard a fluttering sigh from the closely packed audience. Down the stairs Ed was crawling, looking furtively from side to side His face seemed ghastly pale against the shadows. He was more like an animal than a man.
He was nearing the bottom stair when I heard half-stifled exclamation and knew that Myra was coming. She made her way slowly. Now and then she touched a table as though to balance herself, for the passage had grown narrower and narrower. Just behind the front row, a man was seated alone by the side of a pillar, a long, lean-faced man with black eyes. Her fingers, it seemed as though by accident, touched his arm as she passed. Then she paused and with one swift forward step was on the floor. The music was playing a little louder and it seemed, as their arms went out towards one another, that she had leaped straight into the rhythm of it. Like the wind, she seemed to have found his embrace and the dance began.
I watched, and there was not any doubt at all that Ed was the most marvellous dancer in the world. It was the same performance over again, but with the nearing of the climax. I felt the sense of excitement grow almost unbearable.
The crisis came at last. Both the men in their dinner jackets had levelled their revolvers. The shots spat out. I found myself still listening. I could have sworn that I had heard three, but the men who had fired were doing their stunt, racing for the back exit. Ed had once more collapsed, the sinister spot was showing on his shirt front. Myra's shriek supplied the last thrill of horror and the little procession passed up the stairs.
The music went on, hesitated and then went on again. The time for the triumphant descent by the other flight of stairs had arrived. Ed should have been there in his clean shirt and his evil, mocking face. There was no sign of him, but there were indications of trouble behind. I felt a sudden catch in my breath. I looked towards the table by the pillar. The man who had been seated there had disappeared. The wine from a bottle which had fallen to the floor was creeping in a thin stream across the carpet.
"What is it, Charles?" Julie gasped. Gustave was standing half way down the stairs holding on to the banisters. His voice was broken. "Ladies and gentlemen—an unfortunate accident...There will be no more performance to-night. If everyone would kindly leave without undue haste."
There was a volume of eager shouting. The orchestra left their places. I called to Gustave and he came towards me, his face as white as chalk. I capped the small table by the side of the pillar.
"The third shot," I told him, "came from the man who was seated here."</story>