<story title="THE THREE STRANGERS" date="1938">
IT was a typical luncheon-time crowd who were swarming in through the portals of the Milan Court, filling the small lounge and finding their places in the Grill Room beyond. I paused in my conversation with Louis the omnipotent maître d'hôtel, to watch some of his apparently endless stream of clients. They were of all classes, from the politician hurrying along from Whitehall, the man of business descending from his taxi often flushed with excitement of money getting, a sprinkling from the theatrical world, a much larger and more motley crowd from the cinemas, and the usual nondescript medley of foreign residents in the hotel or casual visitors. It was a fascinating task sometimes to put them in their places.
It seemed easy to classify everybody until the three strangers pushed their way through the swing doors and stood within a yard of Louis' desk, looking around them curiously and with the air of having drifted into unfamiliar surroundings?
There was a friendly rivalry between Louis and me as to our ability to classify easily the various types who found their way into the kingdom of this most famous maître d'hôtel in London. In this case it was he who came to a conclusion more easily than I. He leaned forward with something more than his usual urbane smile. There was a touch of human kindness in his simply-asked question.
"Can I do anything for you, sir?" he asked the eldest of the three, a thin, white-haired gentleman in semi-ecclesiastical garb.
"You are very kind, sir," was the pleasant response. "We were intending to take our luncheon here, but the place seems very full."
"I can give you a table." Louis replied, beckoning to Jose. "Have you any preference as to its position?"
"We should like," the girl by his side suggested timidly, "a table somewhere near the one usually occupied by Mr. Marketin."
"Marketin?" Louis repeated, with some hesitation.
"You must know him very well," the girl continued. "We read in the paper only last week that he lunched here nearly every day."
"He is," her elderly companion ventured, "a great power in the cinema world."
I whispered in Louis' ear.
"I should let them have their own way," I suggested. "He can't bite their heads off."
"The papers said that he lunched here nearly every day," the girl repeated.
"That is perhaps a slight exaggeration," Louis said pleasantly. "However, of course I know the gentleman you mean. He usually sits at one of that group of tables on my left, and there is one there now laid for two, but it could easily accommodate three. You would like to have it?"
"If you would be so kind, sir," the elderly gentleman replied with a sigh of relief.
It was a very exceptional thing for me to interfere between Louis and his patrons, but I felt impelled to ask a question. The nervous old gentleman, the girl with her intriguing abstractions, and the handsome but bucolic looking youth were all unusual in their way, and I was interested.
"Have you any acquaintance with Mr. Marketin, sir?" I inquired.
"I cannot say that we have," was the somewhat hesitating reply. "My daughter, however, read in this article she speaks of that Mr. Marketin was always looking for new types for the—er—cinema plays which he produces. I had the idea that I might venture to introduce myself."
My curiosity amounted to impertinence, but I persevered.
"On account of the young lady?" I asked.
"Oh, no." she replied promptly. "We never dreamed of such a thing. It is my brother here who wishes to go on the films. Everyone in our part of the world thinks that he ought to."
I looked at the young man who certainly had all the assurance which the other two lacked. He was dressed in a different fashion to them for the girl wore the clothes of a village dressmaker, but she could have worn a smock and remained a creature of grace.
Her brother wore what appeared to be a ready-made suit from the emporium of an outfitter in a market town, clothes of sporting cut which hung reasonably well upon his shapely figure, but which left him lacking the air of distinction certainly possessed by the other two.
"Forgive me if I seem inquisitive," I said, "but I was wondering how you proposed to approach Mr. Marketin if you haven't a letter to him."
"I myself have raised that question," the elderly gentleman remarked.
"Is he very terrifying?" the girl asked.
I hesitated.
She came out on to the platform and stood there patiently, looking inquiringly into my face. "What is it, please?" she asked softly.
"I scarcely know him." I confessed, "but I believe he has the reputation of being a little difficult. However," I said, feeling that I had gone far enough, "I wish you good fortune."
With a gesture of farewell I left them and went over to my table. A few minutes later I saw Jose usher them to their places. The elderly gentleman gave up his hat with reluctance to an insistent vestaire.
The girl, as she sat there facing me, smoothing her gloves and looking about her with awed interest, was, I realised, subtly but unquestionably attractive. Her boyish figure lost very little of its charm in the simple clothes she was wearing, her almost over large eyes were full of languid interest, her manner as she spoke first to her father and then to the young man was calm, but perfectly self-possessed. It was easy to see that it was she by her encouragement who was setting them both at their ease. She held the menu in her hand as one accustomed to order luncheons, and Jose received her commands and ventured upon several suggestions with his best air. A carafe of water was placed upon the table...I finished my cocktail, ordered my grilled sole with a Riz Diane to follow and made my way back to Louis' desk.
"I see your proteges have settled down." I remarked.
He looked at me with that benevolent smile once more upon his face.
"There is something that one might consider pathetic." he confided, "about that trio."
"Did they tell you their names?" I inquired.
"The gentleman's name is Spenser. He is not a clergyman as I thought but an ex-schoolmaster. I think that he has been persuaded to come to town by his daughter for the sake of her brother. They live in a village with about forty inhabitants on the edge of a moor in Devonshire, twenty miles from even a market town. The young man has a post in a bank. He has also the accent of the local school where he was educated. It is indeed a little pathetic."
"I hope Marketin will let them down lightly," I ventured.
Louis shrugged his shoulders.
"Marketin is a man of uncertain temper," he said. "For the rest, you know him as well as I do. If it had been the young lady who was anxious to go upon the films I think I should have tried to persuade them that Mr. Marketin was a stranger here."
"Why?" I asked.
"I do not pretend at my time of life," Louis answered with a smile, "to be an infallible judge, but it is my opinion that the young lady, whose name, by-the-by, is Lorna, is far too attractive and too unaware of the fact to be drifting about in these circles with a scholarly simpleton and a conceited lout."
"What can one do?" I asked the presiding genius of the place.
He answered me literally.
"I—nothing," he admitted. "With you it is different. You have a bowing acquaintance with Marketin."
"No more than I can help," I muttered
"Never mind—it is sufficient. You belong to the class with whom he is always seeking to ingratiate himself. I suggest that, out of kindness to those three strangers, before they have had an opportunity of making a faux pas, you go up to speak to him and, finding them there, present them as acquaintances of yours."
I considered the matter without enthusiasm.
"I don't like putting myself under an obligation to Marketin," I objected.
"You need not," was the prompt reply. "He will be only too flattered at your addressing him."
I indulged in a little grimace, but, of course, I consented.
With my promise to Louis in mind I watched Marketin curiously when he made his appearance. He was a short, thickly-built man, who wore heavy tortoiseshell rimmed glasses and had a habit of doing everything in life at express speed.
He passed through the lounge, holding his stick and hat out to the vestaire, who had to follow him into the room to gain possession of them. He nodded to Louis and strode down between the tables to the one he generally occupied. Arrived there, he took off his glasses and looked around to see if any of his business acquaintances were in the vicinity. Apparently there was no one he knew, so he sat down, snatched up the menu, hit a glass with the edge of his knife to secure the attendance of a waiter, gave an order in apparently one breath, readjusted his spectacles, and propped up a paper in front of him. He ate the first course of his luncheon at top speed, pushed back his chair, and called for another dish. He disposed of that in about the same length of time, drew a cigar from his case and called for coffee. During the whole performance he had scarcely taken his eyes off the script he had propped up in front of the menu before him.
There was something like consternation upon the faces of his three neighbors when he tapped upon the table and evidently snapped out a demand for his bill. Perhaps I should have made no movement but I caught a glimpse of the girl's face. A few seconds later I was on my way down the room.
"Good morning, Mr. Marketin," I said, pausing at his table.
He looked up with a frown.
"Morning," he replied, regarding me doubtfully.
"My name is Lyson. I have met you at some of these film shows and at Lady Trehsam's last week," I continued, plunging deep into the mire of snobbery.
"Lady Tresham's? Ah—h'm. Yes, I suppose I was there. One forgets," he went on rapidly.
"I know you are the busiest man in London," I said. "Could you find time just to say how-do-you-do to three friends of mine from the country who have come up purposely to see you?"
He frowned.
"I never talk business in a restaurant," he said. "Where are they?"
"Here," I answered. "Mr. Spenser," I said, turning towards him, "this is the gentleman you were asking me about—Mr. Marketin. He would like to make your acquaintance, but he is the busiest man in town. Just shake hands and tell him what you want."
They all three sprang to their feet and ranged themselves at the table. It is my conviction that he was flattered by their promptness.
"What can I do for you?" he asked.
Mr. Spenser laid his hand upon his son's shoulder.
"My boy wants to go in for the films," he said.
"So do a hundred and fifty thousand others," was Marketin's comment.
"I am only asking for a screen test," the young man put in eagerly "Just one."
"Friend of Captain Lyson's, eh?"
I caught the pleading in the girl's eyes and I answered quickly.
"Yes."
"You shall have it. Write your name and address on the back of this card," he went on presenting one. "Come to my office at four thirty this afternoon and I will send you to one of the studios. Excuse me now, please," he added, pocketing his change and dropping a shilling on the table.
"We are so grateful," the girl said softly.
Marketin was without a doubt the biggest bluffer in the profession, but he was not an utter fool. The sound of that soft, velvety voice, the light flowing out from her eyes kept him for a moment rooted to the spot.
"What about the young lady?" he demanded.
"My daughter," Mr. Spenser smiled, "has no ambitions towards film work."
"Why not? She may have gifts. You never can tell. Come with your brother, young lady. You shall both have screen tests."
She hesitated. She glanced at her father and then at her brother, whose face had clouded over.
"But I don't—"
He brushed her protest away.
"Both of you or neither," he snapped out. "Good morning. Good morning, Lyson."
He was gone before anyone could speak. One almost looked to see the dust rise from the well-shaken carpet under his flying heels...
On my way out I paused to speak to Louis.
"I did a silly thing," I confessed.
"Et puis alors?" he murmured.
"I introduced them to the fellow. The young man is going to have a screen test."
"Eh, bien?"
"Marketin made it a condition that the girl went, too."
Louis frowned. He glanced at the three empty places.
"Do you know where they are staying in London?" he asked.
"Not an idea," I told him.
He sighed.
"What you did I was responsible for," he said. "We must hope for the best."
I was seated at my usual luncheon table at the Milan a week or ten days later studying the menu when I was conscious of a whirlwind of approaching footsteps. A waiter was pushed impatiently away.
"Can I have a word with you—at once—Captain Lyson?" the newcomer demanded in a harsh, unpleasant voice.
I looked up in surprise and recognised Marketin. He was still wearing his hat and overcoat, from the pocket of which was protruding a strip of highly-glazed photographs, and his appearance was rendered less attractive than usual by reason of the perspiration which had broken out upon his forehead and the vicious turn of his lip.
"Won't you sit down?" I invited. "Or are you in a desperate hurry?"
He did not answer me for a moment. Those spectacles were very enclosing, but I had an idea that the man felt ill.
"Are you lunching here?" I inquired.
"I don't know. I suppose so."
"Then why don't you go and remove your coat and hat," I suggested, "and come back and lunch here? We could talk at the same time."
He looked at his overcoat. He felt his hat. It seemed as though he were just realising the condition in which he had presented himself. He left the room and when he came back he had the air of a man who had made a great effort. He had bathed his face and eyes and he spoke without his habitual cascade of words.
"I'm sorry to have interrupted you," he said. "I sit down with you here—yes?"
"Certainly," I answered. "Have a cocktail?"
"I had two outside," he confided. "I felt the need of them. I will have another—yes—but no more to drink with lunch. Something cold with a salad," he ordered, waving away the menu. "I can eat, perhaps, when I see the food, but I cannot order it. Captain Lyson," he went on, leaning across the table, "where did you find those three fiends?"
"What on earth are you talking about?" I asked him.
"Strange words, I know," the man muttered, "but they are strange people. I am a Hungarian, Captain Lyson. I am used to peculiar types—to women who thrill and stab and hurt, to men who laugh and are gay and play to the fool, and to their elders who say nothing but whom no one can break. I have never met anyone like those three."
I was staggered at the man's appearance and speech. I thought of that simple little trio—the quiet, half sulky girl with her fragile air and voice like the ripple of a Devonshire stream, the boy with his cheap good looks, and the old schoolmaster with his soft, gentle manners. I came to the conclusion that Marketin was a little mad.
"I'll tell you the truth," I confessed. "I know nothing about them. I liked their appearance. They seemed to me simple people who had come to London on an absurd errand and I tried to make it easier for them."
"I can't get rid of them," he complained.
"What do you mean you can't get rid of them?" I demanded.
His lunch was brought—cold chicken and ham, I think it was. He fell upon it with his usual furious haste while I was watching the filleting of my sole. Suddenly he broke off. His knife and fork remained suspended. He could have used his napkin to advantage. He just talked.
"You are a man of some consequence, Captain Lyson," he said. "For that reason I glanced at the young man. Pah! The studios of London are overcrowded with that type. I should have shaken my head and walked away. But the man—the elderly man—his fingers were on my coat sleeve and I turned round. The girl was looking at me. The first impression I had of her was that she was plain and ill-dressed, and then I saw something else. Where it came from I don't know. We Hungarians are supposed to have a sort of second sight. I tell you, Captain Lyson, I saw something in that girl's face which might have set multitudes swaying and rocking, which might have lifted the roofs of the theatres into the air! I saw it, caught it for a moment in those ruminating eyes as she looked at me. Of course, the effect did not last. I was smiling even as I Stood there, but I could not go away without making sure that she came to my office. That was why I agreed to make a screen test of the young man."
He fell upon his food again, finished everything upon his plate and sat wrapped in gloomy silence.
"I have seen nothing of them since that day," I reminded him. "Tell me what has happened."
He caught at a waiter who was passing.
"Bring me a half flask of Hungarian claret—Carlowitz," he directed. "Some cheese," he ordered from another waiter. "I will tell you," he went on, turning back to me and pushing his empty plate unceremoniously away. "They came—all three of them. The girl scarcely spoke, yet every time I raised my eyes she was looking. They call me a hard man in my office, Captain Lyson. Mine is a hard job. I have to behave like a wild animal sometimes. I gave them a card to a man who owns a studio and I sent them away in my car. The tests were to be sent to me as soon as they were finished. Do you know that since I then I have been sick with longing to hear their footsteps, the knock at the door, their names announced?"
They brought him the wine and he drank half a glass eagerly but with more restraint. The frozen look had gone from his face.
"I do myself good with talking," he said. "It is good that I found you here. Now listen. The screen tests came back. The young man? horrible! The girl's—look."
He drew a little roll from his pocket, just ordinary sheets of photographer's proofs already worn a little through constant handling. I looked them through but even as I commenced I uttered a little exclamation.
"This isn't the girl," I cried.
"It is the girl," he assured me with a groan. "Just look at what seems to be shining out of those eyes," he continued, tapping on the second of the photographs with a forefinger which was none too clean. "Look at that pose—look at those curving lips. Look at the next one—look at the tenderness of them! She is like one of the strange flowers from that strange country she raves about—where she lives. And here here—further on. That is the woman who could send men mad with a snap of the fingers or beckon them to her without a movement. Elisabeth Bergner—all these others that we crawl about on our knees to—they do not belong—they have not got it! She has."
The man's words sounded as though he were ranting but he was earnest—that was the strange part, ol it. His face was lit up like the face of a prophet and the longer I looked at those cheap, glazed pictures the more impressed I felt with the truth of those broken words of his. Nevertheless, it was incredible.
"Look here, Marketin," I reminded him. "I saw the girl. I saw nothing like that."
"You did," he almost cried out. "Wait," he went on, shaking his fist almost in my face. "Think—think hard. You saw her there. Now, you tell me—there was something strange about her? There was something behind those calm, set little features, some fire behind those placid eyes which came and went, some power from heaven or hell which twisted that mouth to tell a different story with every second. Here, if you are so blind that you cannot see," he concluded, "give me back those photographs."
I shook my head. To tell you the truth, I hated the idea of parting with them.
"Marketin," I said, "I realise a little what you mean, but remember this sort of business is all out of my life. All the same, these photographs—frankly, they are wonderful. I find it hard to believe that they are photographs of that girl and then all of a sudden I look and there—there is no doubt about it. Get on with your story. Tell me about them. What did you do when you realised?"
Marketin's face was suddenly almost reverent.
"I felt," he confessed, "as though I had been living in darkness and there was suddenly light. I saw fame and glory opening up before my eyes. It was I who would present her—the greatest genius of the century! I felt it was almost too much for me. However, I steadied down. JSent a formal note. Addressed it to the father. I said—would he come and bring the girl. I said nothing about the young man. They all three appeared. The moment they walked into my little office I felt the place had become what it is—a shabby little den, smoky, ill-ventilated, with hideous daubs upon the wall and common furniture. They sat down and I felt that I was transported into a palace. Look here, Lyson," he said. "I know I am talking like a madman. I am not mad. You are the first man I have been able to talk to about them. You must realise how I felt to understand."
"Of course," I soothed him. "Go on."
"I was not quite so unnerved then as I am now," he continued. "I told them the screen tests had arrived. I could not show them the pictures for the moment. The young man's, I said, were good in their way, but the film studios in London were full of his type of actor waiting for employment. I could offer him nothing definite. As regards the young lady, I told them, if she was content to stay here and work she could commence her salary from the end of the week. I offered her ten—twenty—pounds a week, any sum sufficient to keep her while she was taught something of the technique—a week or two would be ample time—otherwise I would give her an agreement for the first film she acted in and for three years afterwards. Salary would commence at twenty-five pounds a week, I told them, when she was acting. When I had finished they were all three sitting there mute. It was the young man who exploded first. I will not tell you what he said. He got up and was going to walk out of the office, but his sister clutched his arm. Their father, too, he did his best to soothe the young man. There was a good deal of wild and useless talking. The girl was almost dumb. She sat there, her hands folded in her lap, listening to her father and the boy and me. Then she got up and patted her brother's shoulder affectionately."
"'This is all very absurd,' she said. 'There has been some stupid mistake, Clarence. I have not the slightest desire to act on the films. I should be perfectly hopeless.'"
"What did you say?" I ventured to ask Marketin.
"You will not believe me, Captain Lyson," he groaned. "All my life I have tried to get the best talent and the best stories cheap. I have tried to get them at a quarter or a half of what they were worth. That has been my life. I made that girl listen to me—I don't know how. I only said a few words. I told her that she had a gift which as yet she did not understand. She had a body of which she had no knowledge. She had a personality which one of the unknown powers of the world had given her and with which she could succeed in becoming, if she wished, the greatest artist of our days. She only laughed at me. Her father looked at me as though I were crazy. I wrote out an agreement and even wrote a cheque with trembling fingers for two hundred and fifty pounds! She had only to sign. The money was hers. She refused. The old man looked at me as though—as though—oh, well, that doesn't matter.
"'We are rather wasting time,' she said at last. 'Do you really mean that you can do nothing for Clarence?'
"'Nothing at all,' I told her savagely...
"I sat in my chair and I watched them go. The walls of the room seemed to close in upon me. The palace had gone. I was sitting in my own filthy little office. The light had gone out."
"And since then?" I asked.
"I have not seen them. I have been a half-a-dozen times to the shabby hotel where they stay and they will not see me."
He rolled up the photographs and secured them with a rubber band.
"The hotel," he told me, "is called the Western Counties Hotel. It is in the street leading down to Paddington Station. Will you go there and see what you can do. Captain Lyson?"
"I'll go there this afternoon," I promised him.
A gleam of light was in his face as he rose to his feet.
"I shall be in my office until seven o'clock," he said as he left me.
The Western Counties Hotel was a shabby, grimy-looking building, a languid conversion from a tall, cheaply-built dwelling-house. There was a familiar smell of stale cooking as I entered, oilcloth on the floor, a decrepit reception desk from behind which a middle-aged woman in black, with brass-colored hair and many Jingling ornaments, came forward to greet me with an ingratiating smile. Her face fell as I made my inquiry.
"Mr. Spenser and his son and daughter left half an hour ago," she announced, glancing at the clock.
"Did they leave any address?" I asked.
"Not that I know of," was the indifferent reply. "They Went to the railway station."
"Their baggage?" I inquired.
She smiled contemptuously.
"There wasn't much to speak of," she said, "and what there was they carried. If you want to see them particular their train don't go until four. They're off to Devonshire or somewhere."
I thanked the woman and hurried out. Arrived at Paddington I bought a platform ticket and hastened to where the express was standing. I saw with relief that there were still twenty minutes before it started. The long train was packed, but I found them at last the three of them—huddled together in a third-class carriage built for six and already full to its complement. I opened the door. The boy scowled at me. Mr. Spenser greeted me courteously but with marked surprise. The girl, looking wanner and paler than ever, just smiled. I think she guessed why I had come.
"May I speak to your daughter for a moment?" I asked Mr. Spenser.
He stood up to allow her to pass. She came out on to the platform, and stood there patiently, looking inquiringly into my face.
"What is it, please?" she asked softly.
"I think you can guess, Miss Spenser," I told her. "I have come from Marketin."
She shook her head.
"He wants me to stay in London and play in films. He is quite wrong, believe me, Captain Lyson. I have no desire for that life. I should be a failure. I am aching—aching in my heart—here—" she said, her bare hand pressed to her bosom, "to get home."
"But are you sure that you understand?" I asked earnestly. "It is not only the money, but fame is a great thing. You could make a name. Marketin is not a man who makes mistakes. He is willing to sink a great deal of money—all he has in the world—to start you. There is no fear of failure. Think how different a life you would have."
"How do you know what my present life is?" she asked, with that peculiar little smile already forming at her lips.
"Only from what I have gathered," I persisted. "Your father told us frankly that his income was eighty pounds a year. Your brother is earning less than his keep. That must mean poverty for you."
"Well, I suppose we don't seem opulent," she admitted, "and yet I, at any rate, and I believe my father, when the work goes well with him or he has caught a few trout, are happy."
She glanced at the clock.
"Listen," she went on, "I will tell you where we live. There are only four rooms and the cottage is terribly uncomfortable, but it is built on the side of what we call in Devonshire a Coombe. I go to sleep at night with the sound of the stream in my ears. I wake sometimes and there is a grey mist shrouding it and hiding us from the world. Then the sun rises and the mist fades away in silver and gold. And we have the most beautiful trees growing up towards the low-lying clouds that are so often on the moor. And when they become sparse, there is the heather and the yellow gorse, or in winter the grey skies and the booming wind. That is when I look upwards, and when I turn round and look the other way to where the stream is biting its way, tumbling and rolling towards the bottom of the Coombe, then there is the sea and its sound is always there. It soothes me to sleep. It wakes me in the morning. Just so long as I want to be awake it keeps me awake and when I want to go to sleep it soothes me to sleep. Then we have flowers—wild flowers—all around us so that we need no garden. And the scent of everything! Captain Lyson, did you walk into the hall of our little hotel?"
"Yes," I answered.
She half-closed her eyes.
"I am an ill woman," she went on, "till I get back to the scent of the Devon earth, until I hear the swaying of the trees and the song of the birds. How anyone can live up here I cannot imagine. How anyone can think here. All one's thoughts must be grotesque. There is nothing beautiful to see or touch. It may be the life for some people big cheques and theatres and beautiful restaurants and motor cars and houses with parks to them. That may suit some. It would not suit me."
There was a terrible finality about her words, a queer look of shining happiness in her face as she talked. It was all foolishness, of course. It was all because I could not make her understand, but what was I to say? The very things which Marketin had divined in her, the things that belonged to another world which it seemed a miracle that he, the little half-mad Hungarian, should have divined, were there like an impassable barrier.
"My father is like me," she murmured. "He is very happy. He is writing his book on cheap paper with a scratchy pen, but while he writes he is in the world he loves, and when he is weary he stands at the edge of the stream and listens to all the sounds I, too, worship and watches the birds come out and the fish rise and the water come tumbling down He is also content."
"If you stayed," I pleaded, "you would be famous even before your first picture was produced. Think what you could do for your brother."
She shook her head.
"I could do nothing for him that would be for his good," she said. "If I bought him a salaried place—would that help him? What sort of a life could he have drawing money he could not earn? Your little friend, Mr. Marketin, told me the truth about him. It may seem terrible selfishness to you, Captain Lyson, but if we are truthful to ourselves we must always be selfish. I could not help him. I have but one life to give away, and that I shall hold for myself. I must."
"You never think of marriage—of the larger places in life?" I asked.
She smiled and looked at me pityingly.
"Why should I trouble about such possibilities when I am already happy? I have so many more beautiful things to look at and marvel at and enjoy than anything connected with myself. Good-bye, Captain Lyson. It has been nice of you to take all this trouble. Your little friend may be right in a way. I may have a gift I know nothing about. If so, I am content not to use it."
I helped her back into the carriage. Her father courteously held out his hand and gripped mine.
"If you change your mind—" I said to the girl.
"You must come and see our stream some time when you take a summer holiday or a winter one for that matter, Captain Lyson," she interrupted quietly. "It never changes its mind."
A thin little hand waved out ol the window. The train gathered speed, started smoothly on its long Journey. I went back to Louis. His face fell as I told him of my failure.
"I don't understand," he admitted "You told her everything—you explained?"
"I said very little," I acknowledged. "It would have been of no use."
"Why are you so sure?" Louis asked me curiously.
"I think," I told him, "that I must have seen what Marketin saw."
I telephoned to Marketin. Often afterwards I wished that instead I had gone to see him. An impulse, I suppose it was of pity, led me to drop him a line to his office that evening and invite him to luncheon on the following day. But Marketing days of lunching at the Milan Grill were over. The last edition of the evening papers paid him the tribute of a placard—
WELL-KNOWN CINEMA AGENT FOUND SHOT IN HIS OFFICE.
The morning papers had a sympathetic little memoir. There was nothing in his affairs which offered any explanation of his suicide, but then Marketin, after all, had some touch of genius which accounted for his queer ways. I wondered whether the newspapers ever found their way into that lonely corner of Devonshire, whether the girl herself would spare a stray thought for her would be prophet as she listened to the ceaseless tumbling and music and thunder of her beloved stream falling into the sea.</story>