<story title="THE HOUR OF RECKONING" date="1938">
IT was perfectly well understood at the Milan Grill Room that, unless I telephoned by at least an hour before the usual time for luncheon, the third table on the right against the wall as one entered the room was reserved for me. It was somewhat of a shock, therefore, to enter the place on a certain eventful morning, glance towards my table and find it occupied by perfect strangers. I turned to a favorite maître d'hôtel who happened to be passing.
"What is the meaning of that?" I asked severely.
He shrugged his shoulders as only a Provencal can do.
"C'est Monsieur Louis." he confided. "Another table has been prepared for Monsieur."
I turned round to where Louis was seated at his pulpit-like desk. He beckoned to me with his usual respectful gesture and I knew at once that there was some reason for this unexpected happening. I leaned towards him and indulged in a word or two of remonstrance. He stopped me at once.
"Monsieur le Capitane." he said. "I ask your pardon for having changed your position to-day. I am begging for your help. A young lady, whose father was one of my most valued clients, has embarked upon an enterprise which fills me with misgivings. I cannot dissuade her from it. She lunches here in a quarter of an hour under conditions which I consider highly dangerous. She needs supervision; if necessary, a strong arm and a quick wit. I have ventured to give you a table next to hers in a more secluded corner of the room and I am also considering the matter of asking you to accept the companionship of another man whom I think you know slightly."
"Is it to lead anywhere—this affair, Louis?" I asked him.
Louis, although he appeared to the world to be nothing more than the head waiter at the Milan Grill Room, was a man of importance in many other ways. Scotland Yard trusted him with their inquiries. A certain Secret Service branch of considerable importance, of which I myself was a humble member, made frequent use of him. He shook his head firmly.
"This is just a little drama such as you love to watch happening in the very midst of the turmoil of life." he said. "Intervention may be necessary—I trust not. The luncheon party in which I desire you to take an interest will be of two, then there will come a third. It is my hope that it will end with you and the man who shares your table at luncheon also included."
"Never in my life. Louis," I confided, "have you sent me to luncheon in such a confused state of mind. I don't know what to look for or what to expect."
Louis smiled at me in kindly, almost fatherly fashion. I could not help thinking to myself what a handsome picture he presented with his black hair, his finely-shaped features and complexion of that waxen pallor which seemed to have nothing whatever to do with ill-health. He waved his hand to a waiter who was lingering below. I was escorted to my new quarters, a table neatly arranged for two, next to one in the most secluded corner in the room.
The change from my usual surroundings was so complete that I could scarcely believe that I was in the same restaurant, yet in a moment or two the old associations asserted themselves. There was another larger table, but laid only for two people, in the corner, and in the background there was our giant maître d'hôtel, Jose, a born fighter, who did very little waiting indeed, although no one's black tie or shirt front was more immaculate, but who was always hovering round if trouble came. In these surroundings I took up the menu and ordered my lunch. Even though the gloom of this sunless corner was a little depressing, there remained the thrill of coming adventure which Louis' guarded words had inspired.
I am afraid that my response to Sub-Commissioner Parkinson's pleasant greeting, as he paused at my table before I had even finished my cocktail, was not an entirely cordial one. Apart from my conversation with Louis, it happened to be just one of those days when, for other reasons, I was not particularly anxious to be seen on intimate terms with a representative of Scotland Yard, however distinguished.
"All alone?" I inquired grudgingly.
"I am in that unfortunate position," the Sub-Commissioner, who was a tall, hatchet-faced man acknowledged. "That isn't all, either. I am on just one of those jobs when it doesn't do to attract attention, and there is nothing which makes one so conspicuous as to be lunching alone in a place like this."
I summoned a waiter and ordered him to bring another cocktail. My uninvited guest handed his stick and hat to a passing cloakroom attendant.
"The trouble about you, my dear Lyson," my companion remarked, as he took up the menu, "is that you have too many activities. You are a valued member, I understand, of M17B which brings you at times into touch with my own organisation, and you are also a cock-a-hoop Journalist."
"Cock-a-hoop fiddlesticks!" I answered resentfully. "I am on a job now which, if you hadn't come blundering along, and if Louis hadn't rather upset my scheme, would have provided me with an excellent story."
"Let me set your mind at rest at once," the Sub-Commissioner remarked. "This time, at any rate, our interests are not so far apart. I am not going to steal your thunder. You are not going to interfere with my sleuthing. In other words, we are both here as observers of the same possible drama."
"I might have guessed it," I muttered. "We are the tools of that great man who watches us from his seat of vantage. Perhaps you can tell me a little more of what it is that we have to expect."
The Sub-Commissioner shook his head.
"I know very little more about the affair than you yourself," he assured me. "I gather from what I have heard that our friend Jose, who for the moment is out of sight, will be hanging round as a bodyguard in case there is actual trouble, and that you and I are to take such part in the adventure as our chivalrous instincts may dictate. Louis is rather like that. He loves a dash of mystery."
"You might give me an idea of what we have to expect," I suggested.
Parkinson shook his head regretfully.
"There again, the man of mystery prevails." he said. "You are to pick up what you can of the affair by listening and watching. As a matter of fact, Louis doesn't know what is going to happen any more than we do. So now to our muttons."
The broiled sole which Parkinson had ordered came along at that moment and with the serious business of luncheon established our conversation, after a few words of mild invective on my part, became a trifle desultory. Suddenly my companion stopped in the middle of a casual sentence. I knew from the keen light in his eyes—rather sunken eyes—that what was happening in the room close at hand was interesting him. I, too, looked up. A girl, well but quietly dressed, with an interesting, thoughtful face and sorrowful grey eyes, had taken her place at the corner table close to ours. Her companion was a middle-aged man of an utterly different type. He was obviously either a successful business man, a stockbroker or someone engaged in a similar occupation. His keen blue eyes darted here and there, as though in search of acquaintances. He handed the menu to his companion with an exaggerated gesture of devotion. His voice—not wholly a pleasant one—reached us distinctly.
"Whatever you fancy, my dear. Oysters are in season now, remember, and if you don't fancy them, they always serve good caviare here. A roast pheasant I should suggest afterwards, and what about a glass of champagne?"
The girl, it seemed to me, shivered slightly. Her companion was turning over the pages of the wine list and noticed nothing. He had the air of a man who was very likely to make mistakes when in the company of a sensitive person. We heard her softly-spoken reply.
"Thank you, I never drink champagne in the middle of the day. I should like half a dozen oysters, a little cold pheasant and some salad."
"And to drink?"
"A light Moselle, or water."
The man gave his order, then he leaned across the table and began to talk in a lowered voice. She sat back in her chair listening, apparently, but with a far-away look in her eyes and with an expression about her lips which was completely baffling. They had glanced carelessly at us as they had taken their places, and it was clear that neither of them had recognised either Parkinson or myself.
"You are right," I told my companion quietly. "All the same, if these are two of the puppets in Louis' little drama, I cannot see how I could possibly be concerned. I never saw either of them before in my life."
The Sub-Commissioner remained silent, and I knew just enough of his methods to realise that it would be better to follow his example. My restraint was rewarded. A moment later he went on speaking in that soft velvety tone of his which usually meant that he was interested.
"I happened to know that the young lady would be here between one and half-past two to-day," he confided, "I rang her up in the name of an intimate friend, asking her to lunch. I found out that she was coming here, and from Louis I found out in whose name that particular table was booked."
"How did you know that she was going to sit there?" I asked.
Parkinson smiled.
"Louis showed me the plan of the room, of course. If you want to know the name of the man, though, I will tell you. That is Sir Julien Fairhaven."
"Never heard of him," I admitted.
"That seems odd," Parkinson observed, tapping a cigarette upon the tablecloth and lighting it. "He's a baronet and I'm not sure that he's not a Privy Councillor. He's a director of more companies than I could ever remember the names of. He rules in, a dominion which you or I perhaps, don't know much about. It is a certainty that his finger-prints have never been asked for in Scotland Yard, nor has that scandal mongering newspaper of yours ever had occasion to write of him with bated breath or hat in hand. He commits no sins, and he subscribes to every hospital in London. He loves to hear himself described as a sportsman, and I believe he owns racehorses, but for the little he knows about the turf or any other game, he has to pay dearly."
"What relation is he to the girl?" I asked.
"None at all that I know of. She had a fiance who used to work on half-commission for a stockbroking firm Sir Julien was interested in. Perhaps that's how they became acquainted."
"Is there a Lady Fairhaven?" I inquired.
My companion looked at me with shocked surprise.
"My dear Lyson!" he exclaimed. "I thought even you knew a little more about the social world than that. Lady Fairhaven was a Moray!"
A mutual acquaintance who paused to gossip with us broke off our conversation. When we were alone again it was Parkinson who asked me a question.
"You lunch here every day, don't you?"
"Generally," I admitted, "I came this morning, though, because I wanted to see something of a young man with rather a queer history behind him, who I understood was to be let out of prison at eleven o'clock this morning and had told the warder that he would have his first luncheon here. I think Louis knew something of him and I thought if he felt inclined to talk I might have got some copy."
"What was his name?" Parkinson asked.
"Lenwood," I answered. "Malcolm Lenwood."
"Small world," the Sub-Commissioner observed, lighting another cigarette. "Malcolm Lenwood was the name of the fiance who used to sell stocks and shares on half-commission for the House in which Sir Julien had an interest. So you see, after all Lyson, my butting in and Louis' little scheme have not interfered so much with your luncheon plans, especially," my companion concluded, stiffening a little in his chair and depositing his cigarette in the ash-tray, "as the young man is walking straight into your Journalistic arms."
For a brief space of flying moments it seemed as though the stage were set for drama. The young man, tall and handsome, although the complexion was unhealthy and expression furtive, dressed in the correct attire of the moment in clothes that were almost painfully new, was a likely enough actor in any scene of violence. The girl, who awaited his approach, had lost her listless manner. She was leaning a little forward, and one felt that she was vibrating with the pent-up desire for action. Her companion, heedless of the Nemesis which was closing upon him, was engrossed in the very excellent meal which she so far had neglected. In the background I saw Louis, who had raised himself in his strangely-shaped cubicle, watching intently and with a queer look of apprehension, the young man's fateful progress. He, like Parkinson and myself, seemed to have grasped the grim possibilities of the next few seconds...
Everything of drama was, as a matter of fact, to be curiously delayed. That was because one frail girl was able to dominate both an agitated young man torn by a thousand furies, and an obstinate, conceited and cowardly pedagogue who, if he had known what risks he was running in those few seconds, would have forgotten alike his self-conscious dignity and his frenzied regard for appearances, and would have been pushing his way towards the door with his coat-tails flying behind him.
The young man came to a halt. The girl, who had risen to her feet, held him by both hands and drew him nearer to her. I noticed the slight awkwardness in his acceptance of her gesture and a glint of metal under his coat-sleeve. As yet, however, he had not realised the sinister element in the situation She was whispering in his ear, talking quickly and inaudibly, and he was listening intently. She was making some sort of an appeal to him, to which he was listening in puzzled silence.
Suddenly expression crept into his features. He would have shrunk away, but she was holding him. One hand was free, the other she gripped. He forced himself to swing round. He recognised for the first time the man who was sitting at the table. Once more expression claimed him His eyes blazed with sudden anger. It was to be her triumph, however. Her little laugh was so amazing that both men seemed paralysed. The paroxysm of fear passed from Sir Julien's face, and the fury from the young man's. They leaned upon her words. She raised her voice a trifle and this time I heard what she said.
"A kind of nudism of the passions, isn't it?" she observed. "Malcolm came in to kill you, Sir Julien, and his gun is safely in my bag. He doesn't want to kill you any more. We are going to arrange things differently."
Sir Julien laid down his knife and fork. I could see that his hands were trembling. His appetite was failing him. It was clear that he was both angry and terrified.
"I think," he said, "I shall ask to be excused."
"No you will not," the girl insisted. "You will keep your promise, sit this luncheon out and be civil to any additional guests I may ask to join us."
"And if I don't?"
She shrugged her shoulders.
"Then I shall give Malcolm back—"
Her voice suddenly dropped. I heard no more. Perhaps the consciousness of being an eavesdropper, even though there was nothing personal about the affair, brought its sudden quota of shame. I leaned over towards Parkinson.
"Your wealthy baronet," I remarked, "doesn't seem to appreciate the young man's butting in to his party. I hadn't noticed before that the girl is really beautiful."
"You will have a better opportunity of observing her in a minute or two," my companion replied. "You heard her speak of additional guests, perhaps?"
"Yes?"
"Those additional guests are to be you and I."
Parkinson was right. It was barely two minutes before a maître d'hôtel brought us a few scribbled lines on the back of a menu card. Parkinson laid it on the table in front of me. They were written in a woman's bold, clear handwriting:
"I shall ask you to fulfil your promise to Louis. Come please, and bring your friend, Captain Lyson."
I followed Parkinson's example and rose cheerfully to my feet. After all, it seemed to me that I might get my story. We crossed the few feet of vacant space and made our bow. The girl nodded to us both in friendly fashion. Jose, hovering in the background, pushed up chairs for us.
"These are two friends of mine, Sir Julien," she said. "Mr. Parkinson" (she laid a certain amount of stress upon the "Mr.") "and Captain Lyson. I asked them to join us for coffee because I think they might help clear up this little affair."
Sir Julien bowed stiffly.
"I am pleased to welcome any friends of yours, Miss Rodney," he said, in a tone which reeked of displeasure, "but surely this discussion into which you have dragged me is a private one? Besides, I should imagine that Lenwood himself is scarcely in the humor to make acquaintances just now."
There was an underlying sneer in Sir Julien's voice, but the girl ignored it.
"I really don't see why not," she observed. "Mr. Lenwood will, I hope, soon be meeting all my friends. Mr. Parkinson and Captain Lyson, I should like you to know my husband. He has only been out of prison three hours, since when we've been married, so you must forgive him if he seems a little dazed."
There was an instant's silence. So far as I was concerned, I could think of nothing to say. Sir Julien, on the other hand, seemed troubled in the opposite direction.
"This is absurd!" he exclaimed. "Perfectly ridiculous! How can you have married him?"
"I found the arrangements all quite easy," the girl assured him. "I had the certificate in my bag when I met Malcolm this morning. I had a little difficulty with him," she went on with a faint smile, "because he knows I have a great deal of money, but he is getting more reconciled. I am afraid that my stage management of this little meeting, too, has not been very good. The poor fellow hasn't had lunch yet and that is his first cocktail...Waiter, another Dry Martini...I insist, Malcolm. In ten minutes you will be able to have your lunch."
"Will you tell me what all this fooling is about?" Sir Julien demanded angrily. "Why have you made me promise to sit out your wretched party? I am a man of my word, but there are limits."
"And there are reasons, Sir Julien," the girl assured him. "Believe me, I am not disposed to waste many words at this function. Perhaps you will feel more inclined to listen patiently if I can tell you that I am in a position to claim, if I chose to claim it, the reward of £1000 you offered for the return of your private diary and ledger and several other documents which were abstracted from your personal safe at the office—let me see—somewhere about four months ago."
Fortunately most of the people at the adjoining tables had left, and there was scarcely anyone who was in a position to see that anything unusual was taking place among our small party. I have never seen such a change in a man as took place in Sir Julien. A moment or two ago his face had been scarlet and the veins were standing out on his temples. Now, almost with the rapidity of moisture vanishing from a looking-glass, the color was fading from his cheeks, his lips were trembling, he had the appearance of a man on the verge of a stroke.
"What do you know about the burglary?" he gasped.
"I wouldn't call it by so harsh a word," the girl remonstrated. "Some of the books and documents stolen were scarcely your property, were they? Malcolm's account book, for instance, which contained a note of all the transactions authorised and initialed by you which he undertook on behalf of the firm...No, don't interrupt me," she went on. "The book, of course, had vanished when you let Malcolm down, denied any responsibility for the bargains he had made on your behalf, and gave evidence which sent him to prison.
"With the rest of the business I shall not trouble these two gentlemen. You know it and I know it. Malcolm's story was word for word the truth. You made a huge mistake in entering into that rubber speculation. You saddled Malcolm with the result, and let him go to prison sooner than face a loss of a few hundred thousand pounds which you could have well afforded. You are a very conceited man, Sir Julien, and I think that the loss of your personal prestige counted for even more than the money."
There was another curious little silence. The young man for the first time seemed aware of the cocktail which stood by his side. He raised it to his lips and drained the contents, smiling as he felt for the girl's fingers and drew her hand into his. He seemed to have recovered his manhood just as the man at the head of the table seemed to have become a shrunken effigy of his former self.
"Why have you dragged these two strangers into this business?" Sir Julien asked harshly.
"Well, for this reason," the girl explained. "I have a paper drawn up here for you to sign, exonerating Malcolm; confessing your grave error in having overlooked certain circumstances which throw a different light altogether upon those transactions. You will take him back into the office in his former position for, say, a month—he won't want to stay longer—and you will take the chair at the dinner which his friends will give him to celebrate his return and the clearance of his name."
Sir Julien's eyes were fixed upon Parkinson's and there was fear stamped upon his face.
"If I agree?" he muttered.
"Well, I have paid several visits to Scotland Yard," the girl continued, "and I have also consulted a criminal lawyer. It is a matter of doubt whether actually the law has any hold upon you, Sir Julien, and I think the feeling is that if you do your best to make amends for your various mistakes, you will have nothing to fear in the way of prosecution." The girl paused for a moment and the Sub-Commissioner bowed his assent. "As regards Captain Lyson," she continued, "he represents a' newspaper with the owners of which you are not on the best of terms and his version of this little luncheon-party would. I am afraid—"
"Stop!" Sir Julien called out. "I'll sign. If there's to be no trouble outside, I'll sign."
"I appear here as a private individual altogether," Sub-Commissioner Parkinson intervened. "As a matter of fact, I am retiring from the Force almost at once. Still, I am able to tell you that as a result of a consultation at headquarters, it has been decided that unless strong pressure is brought upon us by Mr. and Mrs. Lenwood, and the various books and documents in the case, which as yet we have not seen, are laid before us, we can make no move in the matter."
The man's eyes moved questioningly towards me. Something of that light of fierce and terrified inquiry had gone; the anxiety still lingered.
"In the circumstances," I assured him, "you are safe from publicity so far as I am concerned, Sir Julien. I must confess that I should like to make a story of the whole business, but I shall follow Mr. and Mrs. Lenwood's wishes in the matter."
Sir Julien raised the glass with which his nervous fingers had been fumbling so long, and drained its contents.
"I'll sign," he announced as he put it down empty.
The girl, who had never for one moment lost her self-possession, laid a half-sheet of typewritten foolscap before him and produced a fountain pen. He made an attempt to use his monocle, but the nervous twitchings of his face made it impossible. He fitted on a pair of spectacles and read.
"This is awful," he groaned as he came to the end. "It will be published?"
"It will be published," the girl assured him. "But," she added, and her voice was as hard as granite, "it is a very lenient punishment."
"I would rather take Lenwood back on an increased salary," he suggested.
"Malcolm will find something better to do than work for you, or anyone else in the city," she told him. "I didn't hold on to my job with you because I needed the money. I happen to be a very rich woman."
Her late employer signed. His fingers trembled, but his signature was clear enough. The girl blotted the document and placed it in her bag.
"For three years, Sir Julien," she said, "ever since I accepted a post in your office, you have pestered me with invitations to lunch and dine, which somehow I have evaded. Now at last you have had your luncheon and I hope you have enjoyed it. Perhaps you will be so kind as to pay the bill."</story>