<story title="JULIE JOINS THE FORCE" date="1938">
IT was by the purest chance that I happened to have paid my monthly call at Scotland Yard and was seated with Inspector Hearnshaw when the red telephone upon the table nearest to his elbow suddenly tinkled.
I knew Just enough about that room to understand the significance of this. I saw the sudden change on Hearnshaw's face. He gave me a swift glance as he lifted the receiver. I made for the door, but he motioned me back. What I heard of his terse comments and orders during the next two minutes made me an admirer of the man for life. He set down the receiver with a touch as soft as velvet, then he pressed down the last in a little row of buttons.
"Number Three Service Car. Squad Number Three, all accessories. Supply vacancies with substitutes if anyone away. Start in ten minutes," he ordered. "I will give the driver directions." He nodded and I took up my hat.
"I'll get off, Inspector," I told him. "There's nothing doing down our way. Louis sent his compliments, but we have no report to make. Another time will do for our gossip. A big Job?" I asked wistfully.
"Two men—a wealthy stockbroker and his valet—murdered in Berkeley Square. A dressing case full of jewels stolen and only one man in the job."
"And that man?" I gasped.
"Wheadon, the swine," Hearnshaw answered with considerable heat.
I had half finished changing for dinner that night when an urgent message arrived from Louis, the maître d'hôtel who was so invaluable to Scotland Yard. I found him still in the sitting-room of his small flat on the ground floor of the Milan Court looking more worried than I had ever seen him in my life.
"You have perhaps seen the evening papers, Captain?" he asked me.
"Not yet. I was going to look at one over my cocktail before dinner. I know about the double murder and jewel robbery, though. I was at Scotland Yard when the news came in over the telephone."
"What time was that?"
"About twelve o'clock."
"Up to half an hour ago," Louis said gravely, "there had been no arrest."
"If this man Wheadon is really responsible." I observed, "that isn't so very surprising. It is his thirteenth or fourteenth job and they have never laid a finger on him up to now."
"There is much disturbance here," Louis told me. "The hotel is crammed full. More than half the guests are rich people. An affair like this makes everyone nervous. See—" He drew a bunch of keys from his pocket and unlocked a drawer. From it he he took a well-worn manuscript typed in large characters.
"This is a copy of criminal messages worked out by Scotland Yard during the last few years," he confided. "It comes from the cipher room there. This clipping is from the agony column of last Monday's Times. It commenced with a text and ends: 'So loved our holiday and looking forward to Broadstairs!' Worked out by an expert, the message reads: 'Shall be at Milan Hotel from ten o'clock Wednesday night for three hours. W.'"
"The fellow wouldn't dare to come here," I exclaimed.
"Well, your friend, Inspector Hearnshaw, believes that he would dare anything," Louis replied. "Hearnshaw was in here not an hour ago—a wreck of a man. He had been on a wild drive. He was shaken to pieces and could scarcely speak for anger. They had had two smashes and after the last one, which was not far from Norbury, he swears that he actually saw Wheadon, driving a racing coupe, turn into a side street and dash away. The fellow even waved his hand before he disappeared!"
"It seems a pity that he was able to give them the slip when they got so near to him." I remarked a little tritely.
"It is more important," Louis rejoined, "to decide where he has got to. There is no doubt that he changed his route three or four times during the chase, but not one of them, with the exception of Norbury, led him to any of the great ports. Hearnshaw has drawn what is almost a foolproof cordon around the whole circle, somewhere inside of which the fellow must be. They are moving that cordon inch by inch towards London. If Wheadon escapes it will be the greatest blow the prestige of the Yard has ever suffered."
"Well, it isn't exactly our show, is it?" I pointed out. "So far as we know the fellow has never set foot in the Milan."
Louis looked at me reflectively. "I told you about the cipher message in 'The Times'." he reminded me. "To-night is the twenty-second. Hearnshaw has a theory that his man was not trying to get away. He was trying to double back upon London."
"The devil!" I muttered.
"You begin to understand, yes?" Louis asked. "He really means to keep his appointment here at the Milan Hotel."
"How are your bookings for tonight?" I inquired.
"Three-quarters of the dinner bookings are for regular clients," Louis replied. "Of the others I have made a list and Scotland Yard is placing them so far as it can in a short time. For supper the situation is more difficult. As you know, people drop in here almost indiscriminately."
"Has Scotland Yard any descriptions of Wheadon?" I asked.
For the first time during our conversation the vestige of a smile flickered across Louis' face. He drummed with his fingers upon the table and looked at me reflectively. "There are half a dozen descriptions," he said. "I will read you one." He opened a small memorandum book.
"'James Wheadon. Age about 36. Complexion moderate, inclined to be fair, generally slightly sunburnt. Heavy light brown hair, well brushed back from forehead, a slight curl over the ears. Height 5ft. 11in. Eyes blue. Carriage a little stiff as though from military training. Manners easy. Speech rather deliberate, voice of a good tone. Carefully dressed. Excellent hands, well manicured. Slightly military moustache. A few freckles.'"
"Is it my fancy?" I ventured.
Louis' smile deepened. "Anything strike you about his description?"
"Well, they say we never see ourselves as other people see us, otherwise I should say that it is a very fair description of myself."
"To use one of your own colloquialisms." Louis admitted, "he is the dead spit of you. In Paris he always uses an eyeglass, which changes him a good deal, but he was pointed out to me as a dangerous character on the lawn at Longchamps once and I have never forgotten the likeness. Then at Deauville he scarcely ever removed his sun spectacles, but the likeness was always there."
I felt my chin doubtfully. "This isn't going to bring any trouble my way, I hope?" I observed.
"I think monsieur may rest without disquietude," Louis smiled.
"Anyway, I am dining with your daughter this evening," I went on. "She ought to be able to identify me."
"I am happy to hear that Julie will be so well occupied," Louis said a little drily. "Nevertheless, I trust that you have not the intention of leaving us to-night."
"I think Julie's idea was to dance downstairs," I told him. "After what you have told me, though, I shall be here for supper, I promise you. Julie won't mind."
Perhaps because I knew that among these sleekly groomed, suave looking people in the foyer and in the great dancing-hall below there were at least fifty doughty men from Scotland Yard, who carried death in their hip pockets and who were prepared to deal it out without hesitation if they should come in touch with the man they sought, the Milan seemed to me to possess an unreal aspect that night. Everywhere the spirit of disquiet with which I myself was infected seemed to have found a disturbing place among the whole company. Julie became a little annoyed with me.
"To-night, my dear Charles," she complained, as we danced in the main restaurant, "you are not yourself. You make conversation. All the time' your eyes search the different tables."
"You are a sensible girl, Julie," I said, as we reached the far end of the floor and were in comparative seclusion. "I don't mind telling you that it is true, my dear."
"You have something on your mind?"
"I have," I confessed. "Those people who ought to know have assured us—your father and me—that James Wheadon is likely to visit the Milan some time to-night."
She drew momentarily away from me. There was horror in her face. There was also eagerness. "Charles, are you in earnest?" she exclaimed.
"It isn't a subject to joke about—"
"But how could they suspect that?"
I shook my head. "There is some information, of course."
"But who is there to give him away?" she asked. "They say he is always alone."
"He must dispose of the spoils somewhere," I reminded her. "He might be meeting a buyer here, or his message may have been one of sheer bravado."
"I wonder what he is like?" she queried.
"Well, according to your father, who has seen him," I replied, "he is rather like me. I never thought I had much of a criminal appearance, but he is about my height and complexion and all that sort of thing."
Julie's piquant little face was suddenly lit up with joyous mirth. She threw back her head and laughed. "Charles, my dear, it is absurd!"
Perhaps one of the most foolish things I ever did in my life was to answer that measured tap on the door of my room in my suite in the Milan Hotel where I had gone to freshen up.
A young man was standing in the dimly lit corridor, and a single glance at him almost took my breath away with astonishment. He gave me no time to recover. With a movement which was forceful but not obviously discourteous he pushed past me into the room, closed the door and stood facing me. Just a second or two too late I realised what was happening.
"You have the name of being a man of common sense, Captain Lyson." he said. "You will show it now. You may never have an opportunity again."
"What do you want me to do?" I asked.
"Get further back into the room, keep well away from the telephone and bells, fold your arms and listen."
I did as I was bidden. I could see where he had me covered from the little bulge in his overcoat pocket.
"I want your passport," my visitor announced crisply.
"Help yourself," was my curt reply.
"Where is it?"
"Where you are not likely to find it."
His eyes flashed. Except for that one moment of ferocity even his expression seemed to have been patterned upon my own. The likeness had almost taken my breath away.
"Look here," he exclaimed, "we won't waste words. You probably know who I am. I have had you under observation for some time. You realise that I am almost your exact double. I am wearing a coat from your tailor, a hat from your hatter, shoes from your bootmaker, my hair has been cut by your coiffeur.
"Where is the passport?" he asked again.
"In a drawer of my writing desk."
With two swift paces he was there. He removed the telephone and placed it out of reach, he cut the cord of the bell switch and threw the stand into the wastepaper basket. All the time the bump was pointed in my direction.
"Where are your keys?" he demanded.
"In my pocket," I answered.
He came close up to me. I took a quick step on one side and went for him. The bullet seemed to burn my cheek and flick my ear, but it was a bullet fired in vain and I felt convinced that I was the stronger man. The straight left, however, which should have gone crashing into his face was averted by a lightning-like parry. In a moment we were locked in one another's arms. I entered into the struggle rather fancying myself as a wrestler. It was all over in thirty seconds and I discovered that I knew nothing at all about that science. I was on my back and the snout of his vicious-looking little revolver was pointing straight into my face.
"You are a fool, Lyson," he cried, "and a dead one unless you do exactly as I ask. Do show a grain of common sense, man. I am a professional killer. You haven't a chance against me. Throw me your keys."
I did as I was told.
There is a chambermaid at the Milan Hotel, Nellie Moore by name, whose savings bank book still contains evidence of her amazing shrewdness and enterprise on the night when I was left unconscious in my room. Unlike the valet and the waiter who, finding the door locked, had made only casual efforts to deliver messages to me, she insisted on seeing one of the floor managers with the consequence that an hour or so after I had been left by my double and when I was on the point of asphyxiation I opened my eyes to welcome the sweet rush of cold air through the wide-flung windows and felt life stirring once more in my pulses. I was helped into a chair and I think that among the tangle of questions and exclamations around me the thing which brought me finally back to consciousness was a remark of the waiter.
"This is a queer show," I heard him say to the floor manager. "It's not ten minutes ago since I saw the Captain having supper with Miss Duquesne down in the Grill Room!"
I staggered to my feet. I was a pretty haggard sight as with nervous fingers I strove to rearrange my tie before the looking-glass.
"What's it all about, Captain Lyson?" Antonelli, the floor manager, asked me anxiously.
"It's Wheadon," I groaned. "He wanted my passport and he's got it. Let Louis know, for heaven's sake. IH be down directly." Antonelli sighed as he moved towards the door.
"For the love of heaven don't let the man who is having supper with Miss Julie leave the Grill Room!" I cried. "He has murdered two people already to-day!"
The floor manager was puzzled. "But, Captain Lyson," he exclaimed, "surely I saw you supping with Miss Julie yourself as I came through?"
"Don't you understand, you fool," I half sobbed, half shouted, "the blackguard's trying to get away on the strength of his likeness to me? With my passport hell manage it if you idiots are not quicker!"
I was weaker than I thought; for I had to be helped to the lift. My hand was resting on Antonelli's shoulder as I staggered to the plate-glass windows in the small cocktail lounge which led into the Grill Room. My table was only a few feet away and clearly visible. Seated at it was Julie and the man for whom all Scotland Yard was searching that night. Wheadon was leaning forward in his chair—even his attitude, the poise of his head—seemed fashioned on one of my own eccentricities. The signet ring upon his finger was mine.
They were evidently on the point of departing, for he had scrawled his initials or rather mine—upon the bill which lay on a plate by his side. Julie's fingers were toying with the fastenings of her ermine cape; in her eyes there was a great perplexity. She seemed to be breathing quickly, to be listening almost as one spellbound.
"Give Louis the word," I whispered to Antonelli. "He will know how to act. Tell him I am here. Wheadon is hemmed in by men from the Yard. They are only waiting for his move."
I stood a little back from the window and I watched the floor manager approach Louis and whisper in his ear. Louis listened with a smile which perplexed me. The man's message seemed to have little significance for him. He just nodded, broke off to wish an impressive good-night to some departing guests and dismissed Antonelli.
Julie and her escort were now on their feet. ''Tie latter leaned over with a smile to help her fasten her cape and with a little Jerk of the shoulders, which might at any time have been mine, he followed her to the door. Louis looked up unperturbed, smiled his adieu to Julie and nodded a friendly good-night to my double. I felt the perspiration breaking out on my forehead. If Antonelli had been disbelieved or if Louis had misunderstood him, the man had only a few more yards to go with Julie to be on his way towards freedom! They came into the lounge. I shrank back in the corner, one hand grasping the revolver I had snatched from the drawer just as I left my room.I shrank back in the corner, one hand grasping the revolver I had snatched from the drawer just as I left my room. Wheadon threw the cloak which was given him over his shoulder, gave his pourboire to the cloakroom attendant and turned to the valet, who was waiting to help him, with another ticket. I could hear him distinctly from where I stood.
"I have a bag there," he said. "Will you take it out to my car? You will find the car just a yard or two from the entrance, a new Rolls Royce."
"Certainly, Captain Lyson," the man answered.
He took up the morocco leather dressing case, and followed them down the lounge. Was everyone mad, I wondered. Then all of a sudden I drew a deep breath of relief. The man who was carrying the bag had never been a cloakroom attendant at the Milan! The two or three dark figures who were now guarding any possible attempt at re-entrance to the Grill Room were familiar enough, but they had nothing to do with the place, and each of those two doors by which one could pass from the little hall out into the courtyard were blocked now—two men standing on the threshold of each—and though as yet there was silence there was something portentous about the atmosphere. Julie, evidently according to plan, had slipped down the stairs into the ladies' room. She was safe. I thought with relief.
Then from that other door which led to Louis' flat, two dark figures came out and even as realisation came to Wheadon, even as he knew that he had walked into a trap, they were upon him from behind. Their fingertips could scarcely have touched the sleeve of his coat before he made his spring. I think that as he jerked the revolver from his pocket he recognised me, but if so it was a recognition that passed like a flash of no import. He had already looked down the avenue leading to death, and they were carrying his body through the open door in a matter of seconds after the bullet from his weapon had ended his life.
Julie was the heroine of the night, we all decided, as we sat in Louis' sitting-room until the small hours. Everyone agreed that it had been one of the most dramatic captures Scotland Yard had ever brought off. Wheadon's plans had been almost foolproof. The car outside would not have landed him at Heston but at a deserted farmhouse on the Wiltshire Downs, which was the real whereabouts of the plane, within an hour and a half of leaving London, and the plane itself was fuelled for a thousand-mile run. Julie, still at times shivering, was seated by my side on the divan gripping my fingers tightly.
"At first, Charles," she confided, "it was simply uncanny. I could not believe that it was not you. I even felt a little thrill when he looked at me sometimes in just the same way as you do! Then he became serious, or perhaps it was a pretence, and I was frightened. It was terrible! He wanted me to go with him to Paris. We could be married to-morrow. All sorts of wonderful adventures he talked about. Then I was really afraid. I struggled on. I believe he thought that I was on the verge of consenting. I was to give him my answer in the car when we were alone When we stood up to leave the place and mon pere there just smiled and wished us good-night I nearly screamed! I could not have borne it for many more seconds!"
"And where," I asked, still in a measure bewildered, "did you imagine I was all this time?"
Louis smiled apologetically.
"There's a certain grim humor in that, Captain Lyson," he pointed out. "I wrote a note begging you to go to your club and stay there until alter midnight. You were better out ol the way. Everything had been so elaborately prepared and a single slip might have ruined the whole business. That note I gave to Marius himself to be delivered into your hands."
"I never got it."
"No, but Wheadon did," Louis said grimly. "When he came in. Marius never hesitated. He had just been starting for the lift, but directly he saw Wheadon he handed the note over to him."
I put my hand to my forehead My head was as yet none too clear. "But when Wheadon came in," I said, "Marius must have realised that he had made a mistake."
"Of course he did! Fortunately he came straight to me and I was in time to prevent his making a fool of himself. You can't blame the police. They knew they had Wheadon but they wanted the jewels, too."
I looked around at the little gathering. There was Inspector Hearnshaw, Louis himself, Julie, clinging to my side, Parkinson, an ex-Sub Commissioner, and Sir Edward Rastall, the managing director of the hotel. I looked last at Julie and I realised the truth. "You knew all the time," I exclaimed breaking a somewhat strained silence.
Her arms went around my neck. "You must forgive me, Charles." she whispered, her beautiful eyes pleading. "They persuaded me. If you had known it would have been so much more difficult. And just fancy—three hundred thousand pounds worth of jewels in that dressing case!"
Louis, who had been watching my face a little anxiously, drew a breath of relief. He summoned his own servant from the next room. "Fill the glasses once more, Angelo," he ordered and turned back to his guests.</story>