 <story title="THINGS" date="1919">
This is not the story of Theodora Duke and Stacy Lindstrom,
but of a traveling bag with silver fittings, a collection of
cloisonné, a pile of ratty school-books, and a fireless
cooker that did not cook. Long before these things were acquired, when Theo was a girl
and her father, Lyman Duke, was a so-so dealer in cut-over lands,
there was a feeling of adventure in the family. They lived in a
small brown house which predicated children and rabbits in the
back yard, and a father invariably home for supper. But Mr. Duke
was always catching trains to look at pine tracts in northern
Minnesota. Often his wife went along and, in the wilds, way and
beyond Grand Marais and the steely shore of Lake Superior, she
heard wolves howl and was unafraid. The Dukes laughed much those
years, and were eager to see mountains and new kinds of shade
trees. Theo found her own freedom in exploring jungles of five-foot
mullein weeds with Stacy Lindstrom. That pale, stolid little
Norwegian she chose from her playmates because he was always
ready to try new games. The city of Vernon was newer then--in 1900. There were no
country clubs, no fixed sets. The pioneers from Maine and York
State who had appropriated lumber and flour were richer than the
newly come Buckeyes and Hoosiers and Scandinavians, but they were
friendly. As they drove their smart trotters the leading citizens
shouted "Hello, Heinie," or "Evenin', Knute," without a feeling
of condescension. In preferring Stacy Lindstrom to Eddie Barnes,
who had a hundred-dollar bicycle and had spent a year in a
private school, Theo did not consider herself virtuously
democratic. Neither did Stacy! The brown-haired, bright-legged, dark-cheeked, glowing girl
was a gorgeous colt, while he was a fuzzy lamb. Theo's father had
an office, Stacy's father a job in a planing mill. Yet Stacy was
the leader. He read books, and he could do things with his hands.
He invented Privateers, which is a much better game than Pirates.
For his gallant company of one privateers he rigged a forsaken
dump cart, in the shaggy woods on the Mississippi bluffs, with
sackcloth sails, barrel-hoop cutlasses, and a plank for victims
to walk. Upon the request of the victims, who were Theo, he added
to the plank a convenient handrail. But anyone could play Ship--even Eddie Barnes. From a
territorial pioneer Stacy learned of the Red River carts which,
with the earthquaking squawk of ungreased wheels and the glare of
scarlet sashes on the buckskin-shirted drivers, used to come
plodding all the redskin-haunted way from the outposts of the
Free Trappers, bearing marten and silver fox for the throats of
princesses. Stacy changed the privateers' brigantine into a Red
River cart. Sometimes it was seven or ten carts, and a barricade.
Behind it Stacy and Theo kept off hordes of Dakotas. After voyaging with Stacy, Theo merely ya-ah'd at Eddie Barnes
when he wanted her to go skating. Eddie considered a figure
eight, performed on the ice of a safe creek, the final
accomplishment of imaginative sport, while Stacy could from
immemorial caverns call the Wizard Merlin as servitor to a little
playing girl. Besides, he could jump on ski! And mend a bike!
Eddie had to take even a dirty sprocket to the repair shop. The city, and Theo, had grown less simple-hearted when she
went to Central High School. Twenty-five hundred boys and girls
gathered in those tall gloomy rooms, which smelled of water pails
and chalk and worn floors. There was a glee club, a school paper,
a debating society and dress-up parties. The school was brisk and
sensible, but it was too large for the intimacy of the grade
buildings. Eddie Barnes was conspicuous now, with his energy in
managing the athletic association, his beautifully combed hair
and his real gold watch. Stacy Lindstrom was lost in the
mass. It was Eddie who saw Theo home from parties. He was a man of
the world. He went to Chicago as calmly as you or I would go out
to the St. Croix River to spear pickerel. Stacy rarely went to parties. Theo invited him to her own, and
the girls were polite to him. Actually he danced rather better
than Eddie. But he couldn't talk about Chicago. He couldn't talk
at all. Nor did he sing or go out for sports. His father was
dead. He worked Saturdays and three nights a week in an
upholstery shop--a dingy, lint-blurred loft, where two old Swedes
kept up as a permanent institution a debate on the Lutheran
Church versus the Swedish Adventist. "Why don't you get a good live job?" Eddie patronizingly asked
Stacy at recess, and Theo echoed the question; but neither of
them had any suggestions about specific good live jobs. Stacy stood from first to fifth in every class. But what,
Eddie demanded, was the use of studying unless you were going to
be a school teacher? Which he certainly was not! He was going to
college. He was eloquent and frequent on this topic. It wasn't
the darned old books, but the association with the fellows, that
educated you, he pointed out. Friendships. Fraternities. Helped a
fellow like the dickens, both in society and business, when he
got out of college. "Yes, I suppose so," sighed Theo. Eddie said that Stacy was a longitudinal, latitudinous,
isothermic, geologic, catawampaboid Scandahoofian. Everybody
admired the way Eddie could make up long words. Theo's older
sister, Janet, who had cold, level eyes, said that Theo was a
fool to let a shabby, drabby nobody like that Stacy Lindstrom
carry her books home from school. Theo defended Stacy whenever he
was mentioned. There is nothing which so cools young affection as
having to defend people. After high school Eddie went East to college, Stacy was a
clerk in the tax commissioner's department of the railroad--and
the Dukes became rich, and immediately ceased to be
adventurous. Iron had been found under Mr. Duke's holdings in northern
Minnesota. He refused to sell. He leased the land to the
iron-mining company, and every time a scoop brought up a mass of
brown earth in the open pit the company ran very fast and dropped
twenty-five cents in Mr. Duke's pocket. He felt heavy with silver
and importance; he bought the P. J. Broom mansion and became the
abject servant of possessions. The Broom mansion had four drawing rooms, a heraldic limestone
fireplace and a tower and a half. The half tower was merely an
octagonal shingle structure with a bulbous Moorish top; but the
full tower, which was of stone on a base of brick, had cathedral
windows, a weather vane, and a metal roof down which dripped
decorative blobs like copper tears. While the mansion was being
redecorated the Duke senior took the grand tour from Miami to
Port Said, and brought home a carload of treasures. There was a
ready-made collection of cloisonné, which an English baron
had spent five years in gathering in Japan and five hours in
losing at Monte Carlo. There was a London traveling bag, real
seal, too crammed with silver fittings to admit much of anything
else, and too heavy for anyone save a piano mover to lift. There
were rugs, and books, and hand-painted pictures, and a glass
window from Nuremberg, and ushabti figures from Egypt, and a
pierced brass lamp in the shape of a mosque. All these symbols of respectability the Dukes installed in the
renovated Broom mansion, and settled down to watch them. Lyman Duke was a kindly man, and shrewd, but the pride of
ownership was a germ, and he was a sick man. Who, he meditated,
had such a lamp? Could even the Honorable Gerard Randall point to
such glowing rods of book backs? Mrs. Duke organized personally conducted excursions to view
the Axminster rug in the library. Janet forgot that she had ever
stood brushing her hair before a pine bureau. Now she sat before
a dressing table displaying candlesticks, an eyelash pencil, and
a powder-puff box of gold lace over old rose. Janet moved
graciously, and invited little sister Theo to be cordially
unpleasant to their grubby friends of grammar-school days. The accumulation of things to make other people envious is
nothing beside their accumulation because it's the thing to do.
Janet discovered that life would be unendurable without an
evening cloak. At least three evening cloaks were known to exist
within a block of the Broom mansion. True, nobody wore them.
There aren't any balls or plays except in winter, and during a
Vernon winter you don't wear a satin cloak--you wear a fur coat
and a muffler and a sweater and arctics, and you brush the frozen
breath from your collar, and dig out of your wraps like a rabbit
emerging from a brush pile. But if everybody had them Janet
wasn't going to be marked for life as one ignorant of the
niceties. She used the word "niceties" frequently and without
quailing. She got an evening cloak. Also a pair of fifteen-dollar pumps,
which she discarded for patent leathers as soon as she found that
everybody wore those--everybody being a girl in the next block,
whose house wasn't anywhere near as nice as "ours." ? 
II
 ? Theo was only half glad of their grandeur. Oh, undoubtedly she
was excited about the house at first, and mentioned it to other
girls rather often, and rang for maids she didn't need. But she
had a little pain in the conscience. She felt that she hadn't
kept up defending Stacy Lindstrom very pluckily. She was never allowed to forget Stacy's first call at the
mansion. The family were settled in the house. They were anxious
for witnesses of their nobility. The bell rang at eight one
Saturday evening when they were finishing dinner. It was hard to
be finishing dinner at eight. They had been used to starting at
six-thirty-one and ending the last lap, neck and neck, at
six-fifty-two. But by starting at seven, and having a salad, and
letting Father smoke his cigar at the table, they had stretched
out the ceremony to a reasonably decent length. At the sound of the buzz in the butler's pantry Janet
squeaked: "Oh, maybe it's the Garlands! Or even the Randalls!"
She ran into the hall. "Janet! Jan-et! The maid will open the door!" Mrs. Duke
wailed. "I know, but I want to see who it is!" Janet returned snapping: "Good heavens, it's only that Stacy
Lindstrom! Coming at this early hour! And he's bought a new suit,
just to go calling. It looks like sheet iron." Theo pretended she had not heard. She fled to the distant
library. She was in a panic. She was ashamed of herself, but she
didn't trust Stacy to make enough impression. So it was Mr. Duke
who had the first chance at the audience: "Ah, Stacy, glad to see you, my boy. The girls are round some
place. Theo!" "Lyman! Don't shout so! I'll send a maid to find her,"
remonstrated Mrs. Duke. "Oh, she'll come a-running. Trust these girls to know when a
boy's round!" boomed Mr. Duke. Janet had joined Theo in the library. She veritably hissed as
she protested: "Boys-s-s-s-s! We come running for a commonplace
railway clerk!" Theo made her handkerchief into a damp, tight little ball in
her lap, smoothed it out, and very carefully began to tear off
its border. Afar Mr. Duke was shouting: "Come see my new collection while
we're waiting." "I hate you!" Theo snarled at Janet, and ran into the last of
the series of drawing rooms. From its darkness she could see her
father and Stacy. She felt that she was protecting this, her
brother, from danger; from the greatest of dangers--being awkward
in the presence of the stranger, Janet. She was aware of Janet
slithering in beside her. "Now what do you think of that, eh?" Mr. Duke was demanding.
He had unlocked a walnut cabinet, taken out an enameled
plate. Stacy was radiant. "Oh, yes. I know what that stuff is. I've
read about it. It's cloysoan." He had pronounced it to rime with
moan. "Well, not precisely! Cloysonnay, most folks would call it.
Culwasonnay, if you want to be real highbrow. But cloysoan,
that's pretty good! Mamma! Janet! The lad says this is cloysoan!
Ha, ha! Well, never mind, my boy. Better folks than you and I
have made that kind of a mistake." Janet was tittering. The poisonous stream of it trickled
through all the rooms. Stacy must have heard. He looked about
uneasily. Suddenly Theo saw him as a lout, in his new suit that hung
like wood. He was twisting a button and trying to smile back at
Mr. Duke. The cloisonné plate was given to Stacy to admire. What
he saw was a flare of many-colored enamels in tiny compartments.
In the center a dragon writhed its tongue in a field of stars,
and on the rim were buds on clouds of snow, a flying bird, and
amusing symbols among willow leaves. But Mr. Duke was lecturing on what he ought to have seen: "This is a sara, and a very fine specimen. Authorities
differ, but it belonged either to the Shi sinwo or the
Monzeki--princely monks, in the monastery of
Nin-na-ji. Note the extreme thinness of the cloisons, and
the pastes are very evenly vitrified. The colors are remarkable.
You'll notice there's slate blue, sage green, chrome yellow,
and--uh--well, there's several other colors. You see the ground
shows the kara kusa. That bird there is a ho-ho in
flight above the branches of the kiri tree." Stacy had a healthy suspicion that a few months before Mr.
Duke had known no more about Oriental art than Stacy Lindstrom.
But he had no Japanese words for repartee, and he could only rest
his weight on the other foot and croak "Well, well!" Mr. Duke was beatifically going on: "Now this
chat-subo, you'll notice, is not cloisonné at all,
but champlevé. Very important point in studying
shippo ware. Note the unusually fine kiku crest on
this chawan." "I see. Uh--I see," said Stacy. "Just a goat, that's all he is, just a giddy goat," Janet
whispered to Theo in the dark room beyond, and pranced away. It was five minutes before Theo got up courage to rescue
Stacy. When she edged into the room he was sitting in a large
leather chair and fidgeting. He was fidgeting in twenty different
but equally irritating ways. He kept re-crossing his legs, and
every time he crossed them the stiff trousers bagged out in more
hideous folds. Between times he tapped his feet. His fingers
drummed on the chair. He looked up at the ceiling, licking his
lips, and hastily looked down, with an artificial smile in
acknowledgment of Mr. Duke's reminiscences of travel. Theo swooped on Stacy with hands clapping in welcome, with a
flutter of white muslin skirts about young ankles. "Isn't the house comfy? When we get a pig we can keep him
under that piano! Come on, I'll show you all the hidey holes,"
she crowed. She skipped off, dragging him by the hand--but she realized
that she was doing altogether too much dragging. Stacy, who had
always been too intent on their games to be self-conscious, was
self-conscious enough now. What could she say to him? She besought: "I hope you'll come often. We'll have lots of
fun out of--" "Oh, you won't know me any more, with a swell place like
this," he mumbled. As women do she tried to bandage this raw, bruised moment. She
snapped on the lights in the third drawing room, and called his
attention to the late Mr. P. J. Broom's coat of arms carved on
the hulking stone fireplace. "I got the decorator to puzzle it
out for me, and as far as he could make out, if Pat Broom was
right he was descended from an English duke, a German general and
a Serbian undertaker. He didn't miss a trick except--" "Well, it's a pretty fine fireplace," Stacy interrupted. He
looked away, his eyes roving but dull, and dully he added: "Too
fine for me, I guess." Not once could she get him to share her joy in the house. He
seemed proud of the virtue of being poor. Like a boast sounded
his repeated "Too darned fine for me--don't belong in with all
these doo-dads." She worked hard. She showed him not only the
company rooms but the delightful secret passage of the clothes
chute which led from an upstairs bedroom to the laundry; the
closet drawers which moved on rollers and could be drawn out by
the little finger; the built-in clock with both Trinity and
Westminster chimes; the mysterious spaces of the basement, with
the gas drier for wet wash, and the wine cellar which--as it so
far contained only a case of beer and seven bottles of ginger
ale--was chiefly interesting to the sense of make-believe. Obediently he looked where she pointed; politely he repeated
that everything was "pretty fine"; and not once was he her
comrade. The spirit of divine trust was dead, horribly mangled
and dead, she panted, while she caroled in the best
nice-young-woman tone she could summon: "See, Stace. Isn't this
cun-ning?" It is fabled that sometimes the most malignant ghosts are
souls that in life have been the most kindly and beloved. Dead
though this ancient friendship seemed, it had yet one phase of
horror to manifest. After having implied that he was a plain
honest fellow and glad of it, Stacy descended to actual boasting.
They sat uneasily in the smallest of the drawing rooms, their
eyes fencing. Theo warned herself that he was merely embarrassed.
She wanted to be sorry for him. But she was tired--tired of
defending him to others, tired of fighting to hold his
affection. "I certainly am eating the work in the tax commissioner's
office. I'm studying accounting systems and banking methods
evenings, and you want to watch your Uncle Stacy. I'll make some
of these rich fellows sit up! I know the cashier at the Lumber
National pretty well now, and he as much as said I could have a
job there, at better money, any time I wanted to." He did not say what he wished to put into the railroad and the
bank--only what he wished to get out of them. He had no plans,
apparently, to build up great institutions for Vernon, but he did
have plans to build up a large salary for Stacy Lindstrom. And one by one, as flustered youth does, he dragged in the
names of all the important men he had met. The conversation had
to be bent distressingly, to get them all in. He took half an hour in trying to make an impressive exit. "I hate him! He expects me to be snobbish! He made it so hard
for me to apologize for being rich. He--Oh, I hate him!" Theo
sobbed by her bed. ? 
III
 ? Not for a week did she want to see the boy again; and not for
a month did he call. By that time she was used to doing without
him. Before long she was used to doing without most people. She
was left lonely. Janet had gone East to a college that wasn't a
college at all, but a manicurist's buffer of a school, all
chamois, celluloid, and pink powder--a school all roses and
purring and saddle horses and pleasant reading of little manuals
about art. Theo had admired her older sister. She had been eager
when Janet had let her wash gloves and run ribbons. She missed
the joy of service. She missed too the conveniences of the old
brown house--the straw-smelling dog house in the back yard, with
the filthy, agreeable, gentlemanly old setter who had resided
there; and the tree up which a young woman with secret sorrows
could shin resentfully. Not only Janet and Eddie Barnes but most of Theo's friends had
escaped domestic bliss and gone off to school. Theo wanted to
follow them, but Mrs. Duke objected: "I wouldn't like to have
both my little daughters desert me at once." At the age halfway
between child and independent woman Theo was alone. She missed
playing; she missed the achievements of housework. In the old days, on the hired girl's night out, Theo had not
minded splashing in rainbow-bubbled suds and polishing the water
glasses to shininess. But now there was no hired girl's night
out, and no hired girls. There were maids instead, three of them,
with a man who took care of the furnace and garden and put on
storm windows. The eldest of the maids was the housekeeper-cook,
and she was a straight-mouthed, carp-eyed person named Lizzie.
Lizzie had been in the Best Houses. She saw to it that neither
the other servants nor the Dukes grew slack. She would have
fainted at the sight of Sunday supper in the kitchen or of Theo
washing dishes. Mr. Duke pretended to be glad that they had a furnace man;
that he no longer had to put on overalls and black leather gloves
to tend the furnace and sift the ashes. That had been his
before-supper game at the shabby brown house. As a real-estate
man, he had been mediocre. As a furnace man, he had been a
surgeon, an artist. He had operated on the furnace delicately,
giving lectures on his technic to a clinic of admiring young. You
mustn't, he had exhorted, shake for one second after the slivers
of hot coal tumble through the grate. You must turn off the draft
at exactly the moment when the rose-and-saffron flames quiver
above the sullen mound of coal. His wife now maintained that he had been dreadfully bored and
put upon by chores. He didn't contradict. He was proud that he no
longer had to perch on a ladder holding a storm window or
mightily whirling the screw driver as the screws sunk unerringly
home. But with nothing to do but look at the furnace man, and
gaze at his collections of jugs and bugs and rugs, he became slow
of step and foggy of eye, and sometimes, about nothing in
particular, he sighed. Whenever they had guests for dinner he solemnly showed the
cloisonné and solemnly the guests said, "Oh," and
"Really?" and "Is it?" They didn't want to see the
cloisonné, and Mr. Duke didn't want to show it, and of his
half-dozen words of Japanese he was exceedingly weary. But if one
is a celebrated collector one must keep on collecting and showing
the collections. These dinners and private exhibits were part of a social
system in which the Dukes were entangled. It wasn't an
easy-fitting system. It was too new. If we ever have professional
gentlemen in this country we may learn to do nothing and do it
beautifully. But so far we want to do things. Vernon society went
out for businesslike activities. There was much motoring, golf
and the discussion of golf, and country-club dances at which the
men's costumes ran from full evening dress through dinner coats
to gray suits with tan shoes. Most of the men enjoyed these activities honestly. They danced
and motored and golfed because they liked to; because it rested
them after the day in the office. But there was a small exclusive
set in Vernon that had to spend all its time in getting
recognized as a small exclusive set. It was social solitaire. By
living in a district composed of a particular three blocks on the
Boulevard of the Lakes Mr. Duke had been pushed into that
exclusive set--Mrs. Duke giving a hand in the pushing. Sometimes he rebelled. He wanted to be back at work. He had
engaged a dismayingly competent manager for his real-estate
office, and even by the most ingenious efforts to find something
wrong with the books or the correspondence he couldn't keep
occupied at the office for more than two hours a day. He longed
to discharge the manager, but Mrs. Duke would not have it. She
enjoyed the ownership of a leisure-class husband. For rich women the social system in Vernon does provide more
games than for men. The poor we have always with us, and the
purpose of the Lord in providing the poor is to enable us of the
better classes to amuse ourselves by investigating them and
uplifting them and at dinners telling how charitable we are. The
poor don't like it much. They have no gratitude. They would
rather be uplifters themselves. But if they are taken firmly in
hand they can be kept reasonably dependent and interesting for
years. The remnants of the energy that had once taken Mrs. Duke into
the woods beyond the end of steel now drove her into
poor-baiting. She was a committeewoman five deep. She had
pigeonholes of mysteriously important correspondence, and she
hustled about in the limousine. When her husband wanted to go
back and do real work she was oratorical: "That's the trouble with the American man. He really likes his
sordid office. No, dearie, you just enjoy your leisure for a
while yet. As soon as we finish the campaign for censoring music
you and I will run away and take a good trip--San Francisco and
Honolulu." But whenever she actually was almost ready to go even he saw
objections. How ridiculous to desert their adorable house, the
beds soft as whipped cream, the mushrooms and wild rice that only
Lizzie could cook, for the discomforts of trains and hotels! And
was it safe to leave the priceless collections? There had been a
burglar scare--there always has just been a burglar scare in all
cities. The Dukes didn't explain how their presence would keep
burglars away, but they gallantly gave up their lives to guarding
the cloisonné while they talked about getting a caretaker,
and never tried to get him. Thus at last was Lyman Duke become a prison guard shackled to
the things he owned, and the longest journey of the man who had
once desired new peaks and softer air was a slow walk down to the
Commercial Club for lunch. ? 
IV
 ? When Janet and Eddie Barnes and the rest of Theo's friends
came back from college; when the sons went into their fathers'
wholesale offices and clubs, and the daughters joined their
mothers' lecture courses and societies, and there was an
inheriting Younger Set and many family plans for marriages--then
Theo ceased to be lonely, and remembered how to play. She had
gone to desultory dances during their absence, but only with
people too old or too young. Now she had a group of her own. She
danced with a hot passion for music and movement; her questioning
about life disappeared in laughter as she rose to the rushing of
people and the flashing of gowns. Stacy Lindstrom was out of existence in this colored world.
Stacy was now chief clerk in the railroad tax commissioner's
office, and spoken of as future assistant cashier in the Lumber
National Bank. But he was quite insignificant. He was thin--not
slim. He was silent--not reserved. His clothes were plain--not
cleverly inconspicuous. He wore eyeglasses with a gold chain
attached to a hoop over one ear; and he totally failed to insist
that he was bored by the vaudeville which everybody attended and
everybody sneered at. Oh, he was ordinary, through and
through. Thus with boarding-school wisdom Janet dissected the
unfortunate social problem known as Stacy Lindstrom. Theo didn't
protest much. It was not possible for youth to keep on for five
years very ardently defending anybody who changed as little as
Stacy. And Theo was busy. Not only to dances did Janet lead her, but into the delights
of being artistic. Janet had been gapingly impressed by the Broom
mansion when the family had acquired it, but now, after vacation
visits to Eastern friends, she saw that the large brown velvet
chairs were stuffy, and the table with the inlaid chessboard of
mother-of-pearl a horror. What Janet saw she also expressed. In one of the manuals the girls had been tenderly encouraged
to glance through at Janet's college it was courageously stated
that simplicity was the keynote in decoration. At breakfast,
dinner, and even at suppers personally abstracted from the ice
box at two A. M., Janet clamored that their ratty old palace
ought to be refurnished. Her parents paid no attention. That was
just as well. Otherwise Janet would have lost the chance to get into her
portable pulpit and admonish: "When I have a house it will be
absolutely simple. Just a few exquisite vases, and not one chair
that doesn't melt into the environment.
Things--things--things--they are so dreadful! I shan't have a
thing I can't use. Use is the test of beauty." Theo knew that the admirable Janet expressed something which
she had been feeling like a dull, unplaced pain. She became a
member of an informal art association consisting of herself,
Janet, Eddie Barnes, and Harry McPherson, Janet's chief suitor.
It is true that the art association gave most of its attention to
sitting together in corners at dances and giggling at other
people's clothes, but Janet did lead them to an exhibit at the
Vernon Art Institute, and afterward they had tea and felt
intellectual and peculiar and proud. Eddie Barnes was showing new depths. He had attended a great
seaboard university whose principal distinction, besides its
athletics, was its skill in instructing select young gentlemen to
discuss any topic in the world without having any knowledge of it
whatever. During Janet's pogrom against the Dukes' mosque-shaped
brass lamp Eddie was heard to say a number of terribly good
things about the social value of knowing wall sconces. When Janet and Harry McPherson were married Eddie was best
man, Theo bridesmaid. Janet had furnished her new house. When Theo had accompanied
Janet on the first shopping flight she had wanted to know just
what sort of chairs would perform the miracle of melting into the
environment. She wondered whether they could be found in
department stores or only in magic shops. But Janet led her to a
place only too familiar--the Crafts League, where Mrs. Duke
always bought candle shades and small almond dishes. Janet instantly purchased a hand-tooled leather box for
playing cards, and a desk set which included a locked diary in a
morocco cover and an ingenious case containing scissors,
magnifying glass, pencil sharpener, paper cutter, steel ink
eraser, silver penknife. This tool kit was a delightful toy, and
it cost thirty-seven dollars. The clerk explained that it was
especially marked down from forty-five dollars, though he did not
explain why it should be especially marked down. Theo wailed: "But those aren't necessary! That last
thingumajig has four different kinds of knives, where you only
need one. It's at least as useless as Papa's
cloisonné." "I know, but it's so amusing. And it's entirely different from
Papa's old stuff. It's the newest thing out!" Janet
explained. Before she had bought a single environment-melting chair Janet
added to her simple and useful furnishings a collection of glass
fruit for table centerpiece, a set of Venetian glass bottles, a
traveling clock with a case of gold and platinum and works of
tin. For her sensible desk she acquired a complicated engine
consisting of a tiny marble pedestal, on which was an onyx ball,
on which was a cerise and turquoise china parrot, from whose
back, for no very clear anatomical reason, issued a candlestick.
But not a stick for candles. It was wired for electricity. As she accepted each treasure Janet rippled that it was so
amusing. The clerk added "So quaint," as though it rimed with
amusing. While Theo listened uncomfortably they two sang a chorus
of disparagement of Mid-Victorian bric-a-brac and praise of
modern clever bits. When Janet got time for the miraculous chairs-- She had decided to furnish her dining room in friendly,
graceful Sheraton, but the clerk spoke confidentially of French
lacquer, and Theo watched Janet pledge her troth to a frail
red-lacquered dining-room set of brazen angles. The clerk also
spoke of distinguished entrance halls, and wished upon Janet an
enormous Spanish chair of stamped leather upholstery and
dropsical gilded legs, with a mirror that cost a hundred and
twenty dollars, and a chest in which Janet didn't intend to keep
anything. Theo went home feeling that she was carrying on her shoulders
a burden of gilded oak; that she would never again run free. When Janet's house was done it looked like a sale in a seaside
gift shop. Even her telephone was covered with a brocade and
china doll. Theo saw Janet spending her days vaguely endeavoring
to telephone to living life through brocade dolls. After Janet's marriage Theo realized that she was tired of
going to parties with the same group; of hearing the same Eddie
tell the same stories about the cousin of the Vanderbilts who had
almost invited him to go yachting. She was tired of Vernon's one
rich middle-aged bachelor; of the bouncing girl twins who always
rough-housed at dances. She was peculiarly weary of the same
salads and ices which all Vernon hostesses always got from the
same caterer. There was one kind of cake with rosettes of nuts
which Theo met four times in two weeks--and expected to meet till
the caterer passed beyond. She could tell beforehand how any
given festivity would turn out. She knew at just what moment
after a luncheon the conversation about babies would turn into
uneasy yawns, and the hostess would, inevitably, propose bridge.
Theo desired to assassinate the entire court of face cards. Stacy Lindstrom had about once a year indicated a shy desire
to have her meet his own set. He told her that they went skiing
in winter and picnicking in summer; he hinted how simply and
frankly they talked at dinners. Theo went gladly with him to
several parties of young married people and a few unmarried
sisters and cousins. For three times she enjoyed the change in
personnel. As she saw the bright new flats, with the glassed-in
porches, the wicker furniture, the colored prints and the
davenports; as she heard the people chaff one another; as she
accompanied them to a public skating rink and sang to the blaring
band--she felt that she had come out of the stupidity of stilted
social sets and returned to the naturalness of the old brown
house. But after three parties she knew all the jokes of the husbands
about their wives, and with unnecessary thoroughness she knew the
opinions of each person upon movies, Chicago, prohibition, the I.
W. W., Mrs. Sam Jenkins' chronic party gown, and Stacy's new job
in the Lumber National. She tried to enliven the parties. She
worked harder than any of her hostesses. She proposed charades,
music. She failed. She gave them one gorgeous dance, and
disappeared from their group forever. She did go with Stacy on a tramp through the snow, and enjoyed
it--till he began to hint that he, too, might have a great house
and many drawing rooms some day. He had very little to say about
what he hoped to do for the Lumber National Bank in return. Then did Theo feel utterly deserted. She blamed herself. Was
something wrong with her that she alone found these amusements so
agonizingly unamusing? And feeling thus why didn't she do
something about it? She went on helping her mother in the
gigantic task of asking Lizzie what orders Lizzie wanted them to
give her. She went on planning that some day she would read large
books and know all about world problems, and she went on
forgetting to buy the books. She was twenty-six, and there was no
man to marry except the chattering Eddie Barnes. Certainly she
could not think romantically about that Stacy Lindstrom whose
ambition seemed to be to get enough money to become an imitation
chattering Eddie Barnes. Then America entered the war. ? 
V
 ? Eddie Barnes went to the first officers' training camp, and
presently was a highly decorative first lieutenant in a
hundred-dollar uniform. Stacy Lindstrom made his savings over to
his mother, and enlisted. While Eddie was still stationed at a
cantonment as instructor Stacy was writing Theo ten-word messages
from France. He had become a sergeant, and French agriculture was
interesting, he wrote. Stacy's farewell had been undistinguished. He called--a
slight, commonplace figure in a badly fitting private's uniform.
He sat on the piano stool and mouthed: "Well, I have a furlough.
Then we get shipped across. Well--don't forget me, Theo." At the door Stacy kissed her hand so sharply that his teeth
bruised her skin, and ran down the steps, silent. But Eddie, who came up from the cantonment at least once a
month, at least that often gave a long, brave farewell to Theo.
Handsome, slim, erect, he invariably paced the smallest drawing
room, stopped, trembled, and said in a military tone, tenor but
resolute: "Well, old honey, this may be the last time I see you.
I may get overseas service any time now. Theo dear, do you know
how much I care? I shall take a picture of you in my heart, and
it may be the last thing I ever think of. I'm no hero, but I know
I shall do my duty. And, Theo, if I don't come back--" The first two times Theo flared into weeping at this point,
and Eddie's arm was about her, and she kissed him. But the third,
fourth and fifth times he said good-by forever she chuckled,
"Cheer up, old boy." It was hard for her to feel tragic about
Eddie's being in the service, because she was in the service
herself. At last there was work that needed her. She had started with
three afternoons a week at Red Cross; chatty afternoons, with her
mother beside her, and familiar neighbors stopping in the middle
of surgical dressings to gurgle: "Oh, did you hear about how
angry George Bangs was when Nellie bought a case of toilet soap
at a dollar a cake? Think of it. A dollar! When you can get a
very nice imported soap at twenty-five cents." Theo felt that there was too much lint on the conversation and
too little on their hands. She found herself one with a dozen
girls who had been wrens and wanted to be eagles. Two of them
learned motor repairing and got across to France. Theo wanted to
go, but her mother refused. After a dignified protest from Mrs.
Duke, Theo became telephone girl at Red Cross headquarters, till
she had learned shorthand and typing, and was able to serve the
head of the state Red Cross as secretary. She envied the
motor-corps women in their uniforms, but she exulted in power--in
being able to give quick, accurate information to the distressed
women who came fluttering to headquarters. Mrs. Duke felt that typing was low. Theo was protected by her
father. "Good thing for the girl to have business training," he kept
insisting, till the commanding officer of the house impatiently
consented. It was the American Library Association collection which
turned Theo from a dim uneasiness about the tyranny of
possessions to active war. She bounced into the largest drawing
room one dinner time, ten minutes late, crying: "Let's go over
all our books tonight and weed out a dandy bunch for the
soldiers!" Mrs. Duke ruled: "Really, my dear, if you would only try to be
on time for your meals! It's hard enough on Lizzie and myself to
keep the house running--" "Come, come, come! Get your hat off and comb your hair and get
ready for dinner. I'm almost starved!" grumbled Mr. Duke. Theo repeated the demand as soon as she was seated. The
soldiers, she began, needed-- "We occasionally read the newspapers ourselves! Of course we
shall be very glad to give what books we can spare. But there
doesn't seem to be any necessity of going at things in
this--this--hit-or-a-miss! Besides, I have some letters to write
this evening," stated Mrs. Duke. "Well, I'm going over them anyway!" "I wish to see any books before you send them away!" With Theo visualizing herself carrying off a carload of books,
the Dukes ambled to the library after finishing dinner--and
finishing coffee, a cigar and chocolate peppermints, and a
discussion of the proper chintz for the shabby chairs in the
guest room. Theo realized as she looked at the lofty, benign, and
carefully locked bookcases that she hadn't touched one of the
books for a year; that for six months she hadn't seen anyone
enter the room for any purpose other than sweeping. After fifteen minutes spent in studying every illustration in
a three-volume history Mrs. Duke announced: "Here's something I
think we might give away, Lym. Nobody has ever read it. A good
many of the pages are uncut." Mr. Duke protested: "Give that away? No, sir! I been meaning
to get at that for a long time. Why, that's a valuable history.
Tells all about modern Europe. Man ought to read it to get an
idea of the sources of the war." "But you never will read it, Papa," begged Theo. "Now, Theo," her mother remonstrated in the D. A. R. manner,
"if your father wishes to keep it that's all there is to be said,
and we will make no more words about it." She returned the three
volumes to the shelf. "I'll turn it over to you just as soon as I've read it," her
father obliged. Theo reflected that if any soldiers in the
current conflict were to see the history they would have to
prolong the war till 1950. But she tried to look grateful while her father went on: "Tell
you what I was thinking, though, Mother. Here's these two shelves
of novels--none of 'em by standard authors--all just moonshine or
blood and thunder. Let's clear out the whole bunch." "But those books are just the thing for a rainy day--nice
light reading. And for guests. But now this--this old book on
saddlery. When we had horses you used to look at it, but now,
with motors and all--" "I know, but I still like to browse in it now and then." "Very well." Theo fled. She remembered piles of shabby books in the attic.
While the Dukes were discovering that after all there wasn't one
of the four hundred volumes in the library which they weren't
going to read right away Theo heaped the dining-room table with
attic waifs. She called her parents. The first thing Mrs. Duke
spied was a Tennyson, printed in 1890 in a type doubtless
suitable to ants, small sand-colored ants, but illegible to the
human eye. Mrs. Duke shrieked: "Oh! You weren't thinking of
giving that handsome Tennyson away! Why, it's a very handsome
edition. Besides, it's one of the first books your father and I
ever had. It was given to us by your Aunt Gracie!" "But Moth-er dear! You haven't even seen the book for
years!" "Well, I've thought of it often." "How about all these Christmas books?" "Now, Theodora, if you wouldn't be so impatient, but kindly
give your father and me time to look them over--" Two hours and seventeen minutes after dinner, Mr. and Mrs.
Duke had almost resignedly agreed to present the following
literary treasures to the soldiers of these United States for
their edification and entertainment: One sixth-grade geography. One Wild Flowers of Northern
Wisconsin. Two duplicate copies of Little Women. The
Congressional Record for part of 1902. One black,
depressed, religious volume entitled The Dragon's Fight With
the Woman for 1260 Prophetic Days, from which the last seven
hundred days were missing, leaving the issue of the combat in
serious doubt. Four novels, all by women, severally called
Griselda of the Red Hand, Bramleigh of British Columbia, Lady
Tip-Tippet, and Billikins' Lonely Christmas. Theo looked at them. She laughed. Then she was sitting by the
table, her head down, sobbing. Her parents glanced at each other
in hurt amazement. "I can't understand the girl. After all the pains we took to
try to help her!" sighed Mrs. Duke later, when they were
undressing. "O-o-o-oh," yawned Mr. Duke as he removed his collar from the
back button--with the slight, invariable twinge in his rheumatic
shoulder blades. "Oh, she's nervous and tired from her work down
at that Red Cross place. I'm in favor of her having a little
experience, but at the same time there's no need of overdoing.
Plenty of other people to help out." He intended to state this paternal wisdom to Theo at
breakfast, but Theo at breakfast was not one to whom to state
things paternally. Her normally broad shining lips were sucked
in. She merely nodded to her parents, then attended with
strictness to her oatmeal and departed--after privily instructing
Lizzie to give the smaller pile of books in the dining room to
the junk collector. Three novels from the pile she did take to the public library
for the A. L. A. To these she added twenty books, mostly
trigonometries, bought with her own pocket money. Consequently
she had no lunch save a glass of milk for twenty days. But as the
Dukes didn't know that, everybody was happy. The battle of the books led to other sanguinary
skirmishes. ? 
VI
 ? There was the fireless cooker. It was an early, homemade fireless cooker, constructed in the
days when anything in the shape of one box inside another, with
any spare scraps of sawdust between, was regarded as a valuable
domestic machine. Aside from the fact that it didn't cook, the
Dukes' cooker took up room in the kitchen, gathered a film of
grease which caught a swamp of dust, and regularly banged
Lizzie's shins. For six years the Dukes had talked about having
it repaired. They had run through the historical, scientific, and
financial aspects of cookers at least once a season. "I've wondered sometimes if we couldn't just have the furnace
man take out the sawdust and put in something else or--Theo,
wouldn't you like to run into Whaley &amp; Baumgarten's one of
these days, and price all of the new fireless cookers?" beamed
Mrs. Duke. "Too busy." In a grieved, spacious manner Mrs. Duke reproved: "Well, my
dear, I certainly am too busy, what with the party for the new
rector and his bride--" "Call up the store. Tell 'em to send up a good cooker on
trial," said Theo. "But these things have to be done with care and thought--" Theo was stalking away as she retorted: "Not by me they
don't!" She was sorry for her rudeness afterward, and that evening she
was gay and young as she played ballads for her father and did
her mother's hair. After that, when she was going to bed, and
very tired, and horribly confused in her thinking, she was sorry
because she had been sorry because she had been rude. The furnace went wrong, and its dissipations were discussed by
Mr. Duke, Mrs. Duke, Mrs. Harry McPherson née Duke,
Lizzie, the furnace man, and the plumber, till Theo ran up to her
room and bit the pillow to keep from screaming. She begged her
father to install a new furnace: "The old one will set the house
afire--it's a terrible old animal." "Nonsense. Take a chance on fire," said he. "House and
everything well insured anyway. If the house did burn down
there'd be one good thing--wouldn't have to worry any more about
getting that twelve tons of coal we're still shy." When Mr. Duke was summoned to Duluth by the iron-mining
company Mrs. Duke sobbingly called Theo home from the midst of
tearing work. Theo arrived in terror. "What is it? What's happened to
Papa?" "Happened? Why, nothing. But he didn't have a chance to take a
single thing to Duluth, and he simply won't know what to do
without his traveling bag--the one he got in London--all the
fittings and everything that he's used to, so he could put his
hand on a toothbrush right in the dark--" "But, Mother dear, I'm sure bathrooms in Duluth have electric
lights, so he won't need to put his hand on tooth-brushes in the
dark. And he can get nice new lovely brushes at almost any drug
store and not have to fuss--" "Fuss? Fuss? It's you who are doing the fussing. He just won't
know what to do without his traveling bag." While she helped her mother and Lizzie drag the ponderous bag
down from the attic; while her mother, merely thinking aloud,
discussed whether "your father" would want the madras pajamas or
the flannelette; while, upon almost tearful maternal request,
Theo hunted all through the house for the missing cut-glass soap
case, she was holding herself in. She disliked herself for being
so unsympathetic. She remembered how touched she had been by
exactly the same domestic comedy two years before. But
unsympathetic she was, even two days later, when her mother
triumphantly showed Mr. Duke's note: "I can't tell you how glad I
was to see good old bag showing up here at hotel; felt lost
without it." "Just the same, my absence that afternoon cost the Red Cross
at least fifty dollars, and for a lot less than that he could
have gone out and bought twice as good a bag--lighter, more
convenient. Things! Poor Dad is the servant of that cursed
pig-iron bag," she meditated. She believed that she was being very subtle about her
rebellion, but it must have been obvious, for after Mr. Duke's
return her mother suddenly attacked her at dinner. "So far as I can make out from the way you're pouting and
sulking and carrying on, you must have some sort of a socialistic
idea that possessions are unimportant. Now you ought--" "Anarchist, do you mean, Mother dear?" "Kindly do not interrupt me! As I was saying: It's things that
have made the world advance from barbarism. Motor cars, clothes
you can wash, razors that enable a man to look neat, canned
foods, printing presses, steamers, bathrooms--those are what have
gotten men beyond living in skins in horrid damp caves." "Of course. And that's why I object to people fussing so about
certain things, and keeping themselves from getting full use of
bigger things. If you're always so busy arranging the flowers in
the vase in a limousine that you never have time to go riding,
then the vase has spoiled the motor for--" "I don't get your logic at all. I certainly pay very little
attention to the flowers in our car. Lizzie arranges them for
me!" triumphed Mrs. Duke. Theo was charging on. She was trying to get her own ideas
straight. "And if a man spends valuable time in tinkering with a
worn-out razor when he could buy a new one, then he's keeping
himself in the damp cave and the bearskin undies. That isn't
thrift. It's waste." "I fancy that people in caves, in prehistoric times, did not
use razors at all, did they, Lyman?" her mother majestically
corrected. "Now you always worry about Papa's bag. It was nice once, and
worth caring for, but it's just a bother now. On your principle a
factory would stop running for half the year to patch up or lace
up the belting, or whatever it is they do, instead of getting new
belting and thus--Oh, can't you see? Buy things. Use 'em. But
throw them away if they're more bother than good. If a bag keeps
you from enjoying traveling--chuck it in the river! If a man
makes a tennis court and finds he really doesn't like tennis, let
the court get weedy rather than spend glorious free October
afternoons in mowing and raking--" "Well, I suppose you mean rolling it," said her mother
domestically. "And I don't know what tennis has to do with the
subject. I'm sure I haven't mentioned tennis. And I trust you'll
admit that your knowledge of factories and belting is not
authoritative. No. The trouble is, this Red Cross work is getting
you so you can't think straight. Of course with this war and all,
it may be permissible to waste a lot of good time and money
making dressings and things for a lot of green nurses to waste,
but you girls must learn the great principle of thrift." "We have! I'm practicing it. It means--oh, so much, now.
Thrift is doing without things you don't need, and taking care of
things as long as they're useful. It distinctly isn't wasting
time and spiritual devotion over things you can't use--just
because you happen to be so unfortunate as to own 'em. Like our
eternal fussing over that clock in the upper hall that no one
ever looks at--" Not listening, her mother was placidly rolling on: "You seem
to think this house needs too much attention. You'd like it,
wouldn't you, if we moved to a couple of rooms in the Dakota
Lodging House!" Theo gave it up. Two days later she forgot it. Creeping into her snug life, wailing for her help, came a
yellow-faced apparition whose eyes were not for seeing but mere
gashes to show the suffering within. It was--it had been--one
Stacy Lindstrom, a sergeant of the A. E. F. Stacy had lain with a shattered shoulder in a shell pit for
three days. He had had pneumonia. Four distinct times all of him
had died, quite definitely died--all but the desire to see
Theo. His little, timid, vehemently respectable mother sent for Theo
on the night when he was brought home, and despite Mrs. Duke's
panicky protest Theo went to him at eleven in the evening. "Not going to die for little while. Terribly weak, but all
here. Pull through--if you want me to. Not asking you to like me.
All I want--want you to want me to live. Made 'em send me home.
Was all right on the sea. But weak. Got touch of typhoid in New
York. Didn't show up till on the train. But all right and
cheerful--Oh! I hurt so. Just hurt, hurt, hurt, every inch of me.
Never mind. Well, seen you again. Can die now. Guess I will." Thus in panting words he muttered, while she knelt by him and
could not tell whether she loved him or hated him; whether she
shrank from this skinny claw outstretched from the grave or was
drawn to him by a longing to nurse his soul back to a desire for
life. But this she knew: Even Red Cross efficiency was nothing in
the presence of her first contact with raw living life--most
rawly living when crawling out from the slime of death. She overruled Mrs. Lindstrom; got a nurse and Doctor
Rollin--Rollin, the interior medicine specialist. "Boy's all right. Hasn't got strength enough to fight very
hard. Better cheer him up," said Doctor Rollin. "Bill? My bill?
He's a soldier, isn't he? Don't you suppose I wanted to go into
the army too? Chance to see beautiful cases for once. Yes. Admit
it. Like to have fool salutes too. Got to stay home, nurse lot of
dam-fool women. Charge a soldier? Don't bother me," he grumbled,
while he was folding up his stethoscope, and closing his bag, and
trying to find his hat, which Mrs. Lindstrom had politely
concealed. Every day after her work Theo trudged to the Lindstrom
house--a scrubbed and tidied cottage in whose living room was a
bureau with a lace cover, a gilded shell, and two photographs of
stiff relatives in Norway. She watched Stacy grow back into life.
His hands, which had been yellow and drawn as the talons of a
starved Chinaman, became pink and solid. The big knuckles, which
had been lumpy under the crackly skin, were padded again. She had been surprised into hot pity for him. She was saved
equally by his amusement over his own weakness, and by his
irritableness. Though he had called for her, during the first
week he seemed to dislike her and all other human beings save his
nurse. In the depths of lead-colored pain nothing mattered to him
save his own comfort. The coolness of his glass of water was more
to him than the war. Even when he became human again, and eager
at her coming, there was nothing very personal in their talk.
When he was able to do more than gasp out a few words she
encouraged in him the ambition to pile up money which she
detested. Uncomfortably she looked at him, thin against a plump pillow,
and her voice was artificially cheery as she declared: "You'll be
back in the bank soon. I'm sure they'll raise you. No reason why
you shouldn't be president of it some day." He had closed his pale eyelids. She thought he was
discouraged. Noisily she reassured, "Honestly! I'm sure you'll
make money--lots of it." His eyes were open, blazing. "Money! Yes! Wonderful
thing!" "Ye-es." "Buys tanks and shells, and food for homeless babies. But for
me--I just want a living. There isn't any Stacy Lindstrom any
more." He was absorbed in that bigger thing over there, in that
Nirvana--a fighting Nirvana! "I've got ambitions, big 'uns, but
not to see myself in a morning coat and new gloves on
Sunday!" He said nothing more. A week after, he was sitting up in bed,
reading, in a Lindstromy nightgown of white cotton edged with
red. She wondered at the book. It was Colloquial
French. "You aren't planning to go back?" she asked casually. "Yes. I've got it straight now." He leaned back, pulled the
bedclothes carefully up about his neck and said quietly, "I'm
going back to fight. But not just for the duration of the war.
Now I know what I was meant for. I can do things with my hands,
and I get along with plain folks. I'm going back on
reconstruction work. We're going to rebuild France. I'm
studying--French, cottage architecture, cabbages. I'm a pretty
good farmer--'member how I used to work on the farm,
vacations?" She saw that all self-consciousness was gone from him. He was
again the Stacy Lindstrom who had been lord of the Red River
carts. Her haunted years of nervousness about life disappeared,
and suddenly she was again too fond of her boy companion to waste
time considering whether she was fond of him. They were making
plans, laughing the quick curt laughs of intimates. A week later Mrs. Lindstrom took her aside. Mrs. Lindstrom had always, after admitting Theo and nodding
without the slightest expression in her anæmic face,
vanished through the kitchen doorway. Tonight, as Theo was
sailing out, Mrs. Lindstrom hastened after her through the living
room. "Miss! Miss Duke! Yoost a minute. Could you speak wit'
me?" "Why, yes." "Dis--ay--da boy get along pretty gude, eh? He seem werry
gude, today. Ay vish you should--" The little woman's face was
hard. "Ay don't know how to say it elegant, but if you ever--I
know he ain't your fella, but he always got that picture of you,
and maybe now he ban pretty brave soldier, maybe you could like
him better, but--I know I yoost ban Old Country woman. If you and
him marry--I keep away, not bother you. Your folks is rich
and--Oh, I gif, I gif him to you--if you vant him." Mrs. Lindstrom's sulky eyes seemed to expand, grow misty. Her
Puritanical chest was terribly heaving. She sobbed: "He always
talk about you ever since he ban little fella. Please excuse me I
spoke, if you don't vant him, but I vanted you should know, I do
anyt'ing for him. And you." She fled, and Theo could hear the scouring of a pot in the
kitchen. Theo fled the other way. It was that same evening, at dinner, that Mrs. Duke delicately
attempted social homicide. "My dear, aren't you going to see this Lindstrom boy rather
oftener than you need to? From what you say he must be
convalescing. I hope that your pity for him won't lead you into
any foolish notions and sentiment about him." Theo laughed. "No time to be sentimental about anything these
days. I've canned the word--" "'Canned'! Oh, Theo!" "--'sentiment' entirely. But if I hadn't, Stace wouldn't be a
bad one to write little poems about. He used to be my buddy
when--" "Please--do--not--be--so--vulgar! And Theo, however you may
regard Stacy, kindly do stop and think how Mrs. Lindstrom would
look in this house!" The cheerful, gustatory manner died in Theo. She rose. She
said with an intense, a religious solemnity: "This house! Damn
this house!" The Lindstroms were not mentioned again. There was no need.
Mrs. Duke's eyebrows adequately repeated her opinions when Theo
came racing in at night, buoyant with work and walking and
fighting over Stacy's plans. Theo fancied that her father looked at her more
sympathetically. She ceased to take Mr. Duke as a matter of
course, as one more fixed than the radiators. She realized that
he spent these autumn evenings in staring at the fire. When he
looked up he smiled, but his eyes were scary. Theo noticed that
he had given up making wistful suggestions to Mrs. Duke that he
be permitted to go back to real work, or that they get a farm, or
go traveling. Once they had a week's excursion to New York, but
Mrs. Duke had to hasten back for her committees. She was ever
firmer with her husband; more ready with reminders that it was
hard to get away from a big house like this; that men oughtn't to
be so selfish and just expect Lizzie and her-- Mr. Duke no longer argued. He rarely went to his office. He
was becoming a slippered old man. ? 
VII
 ? Eddie Barnes was back in Vernon on the sixth of his positively
last, final, ultimate farewells. Theo yelled in joy when he called. She was positively blowzy
with healthy vulgarity. She had won an argument with Stacy about
teaching the French to plant corn, and had walked home almost at
a trot. "Fine to see you! Saying an eternal farewell again?" she
brutally asked Eddie. For one of the young samurai Eddie was rather sheepish. He
stalked about the largest drawing room. His puttees shone. Eddie
really had very nice legs, the modern young woman reflected. "Gosh, I'm an awful fareweller. Nope, I'm not going to do a
single weep. Because this time--I've got my orders. I'll be in
France in three weeks. So I just thought--I just
thought--maybe--I'd ask you if you could conveniently--Ouch, that
tooth still aches; have to get this bridge finished tomorrow
sure. Could you marry me?" "Ungh!" Theo flopped into a chair. "You've queered all my poetic tactics by your rude merry
mirth. So just got to talk naturally." "Glad you did. Now let me think. Do I want to marry you?" "We get along bully. Listen--wait till I get back from France,
and we'll have some celebration. Oh, boy! I'll stand for the
cooties and the mud till the job's done, but when I get back and
put the Croix de Guerre into the safe-deposit I'm going to have a
drink of champagne four quarts deep! And you and I--we'll have
one time! Guess you'll be pretty sick of Red Cross by--" "No. And I know a man who thinks that when the war is over
then the real work begins." Eddie was grave, steady, more mature than he had ever seemed.
"Yes. Stacy Lindstrom. See here, honey, he has big advantages
over me. I'm not picturesque. I never had to work for my bread
and butter, and I was brought up to try to be amusing, not noble.
Nothing more touching than high ideals and poverty. But if I try
to be touching, you laugh at me. I'm--I may get killed, and I'll
be just as dead in my expensible first lieut's pants as any
self-sacrificing private." "I hadn't thought of that. Of course. You have disadvantages.
Comfort isn't dramatic. But still--It's the champagne and the big
time. I've--" "See here, honey, you'd be dreadfully bored by poverty. You do
like nice things." "That's it. Things! That's what I'm afraid of. I'm interested
in tractors for France, but not in the exact shade of hock
glasses. And beauty--It's the soul of things, but it's got to be
inherent, not just painted on. Nice things! Ugh! And--If I
married you what would be your plans for me? How would I get
through twenty-four hours a day?" "Why--uh--why, how does anybody get through 'em? You'd have a
good time--dances, and playin' round and maybe children, and we'd
run down to Palm Beach--" "Yes. You'd permit me to go on doing what I always did till
the war came. Nope. It isn't good enough. I want to work. You
wouldn't let me, even in the house. There'd be maids, nurses.
It's not that I want a career. I don't want to be an actress or a
congresswoman. Perfectly willing to be assistant to some man.
Providing he can really use me in useful work. No. You pre-war
boys are going to have a frightful time with us post-war
women." "But you'll get tired--" "Oh, I know, I know! You and Father and Mother will wear me
out. You-all may win. You and this house, this horrible sleek
warm house that Mrs.--that she isn't fit to come into! She that
gave him--" Her voice was rising, hysterical. She was bent in the big
chair, curiously twisted, as though she had been wounded. Eddie stroked her hair, then abruptly stalked out. Theo sat marveling: "Did I really send Eddie away? Poor Eddie.
Oh, I'll write him. He's right. Nice to think of brave maiden
defiantly marrying poor hero. But they never do. Not in this
house." ? 
VIII
 ? The deep courthouse bell awakening Theo to bewildered staring
at the speckled darkness--a factory whistle fantastically
tooting, then beating against her ears in long, steady waves of
sound--the triumphant yelping of a small boy and the quacking of
a toy horn--a motor starting next door, a cold motor that bucked
and snorted before it began to sing, but at last roared away with
the horn blaring--finally the distant "Extra! Extra!" Her sleepy body protestingly curled tighter in a downy ball in
her bed on the upper porch, but her mind was frantically awake as
the clamor thickened. "Is it really peace this time? The
armistice really signed?" she exulted. In pleasant reasonable phrases the warm body objected to the
cold outside the silk comforter. "Remember how you were fooled on
Thursday. Oo-oo! Bed feels so luxurious!" it insisted. She was a practical heroine. She threw off the covers. The
indolent body had to awaken, in self-defense. She merely squeaked
"Ouch!" as her feet groped for their slippers on the cold floor.
She flung downstairs, into rubbers and a fur coat, and she was
out on the walk in time to stop a bellowing newsboy. Yes. It was true. Official report from Washington. War
over. "Hurray!" said the ragged newsboy, proud of being out
adventuring by night; and "Hurray!" she answered him. She felt
that she was one with awakening crowds all over the country, from
the T Wharf to the Embarcadero. She wanted to make great
noises. The news had reached the almost-Western city of Vernon at
three. It was only four, but as she stood on the porch a crush of
motor cars swept by, headed for downtown. Bumping behind them
they dragged lard cans, saucepans, frying pans. One man standing
on a running board played Mr. Zip on a cornet. Another dashing
for a trolley had on his chest a board with an insistent electric
bell. He saw her on the porch and shouted, "Come on, sister!
Downtown! All celebrate! Some carnival!" She waved to him. She wanted to get out the electric and drive
down. There would be noise--singing. Four strange girls ran by and shrieked to her, "Come on and
dance!" Suddenly she was asking herself: "But do they know what it
means? It isn't just a carnival. It's sacred." Sharply: "But do I
know all it means, either? World-wide. History, here, now!"
Leaning against the door, cold but not conscious that she was
cold, she found herself praying. As she marched back upstairs she was startled. She fancied she
saw a gray figure fleeing down the upper hall. She stopped. No
sound. "Heavens, I'm so wrought up! All jumpy. Shall I give Papa the
paper? Oh, I'm too trembly to talk to anyone." While the city went noise-mad it was a very solemn white small
figure that crawled into bed. The emotion that for four years had
been gathering burst into sobbing. She snuggled close, but she
did not sleep. Presently: "My Red Cross work will be over soon.
What can I do then? Come back to packing Papa's bag?" She noticed a glow on the windows of the room beside the
sleeping porch. "They're lighting up the whole city. Wonder if I
oughtn't to go down and see the fun? Wonder if Papa would like to
go down? No, Mother wouldn't let him! I want the little old brown
shack. Where Stacy could come and play. Mother used to give him
cookies then. "I wish I had the nerve to set the place afire. If I were a
big fighting soul I would. But I'm a worm. Am I being bad to
think this way? Guess so--committed mental arson, but hadn't the
nerve--My God, the house is afire!" She was too frightened to move. She could smell smoke, hear a
noise like the folding of stiff wrapping paper. Instantly,
apparently without ever having got out of bed, she was running by
a bedroom into which flames were licking from the clothes chute
that led to the basement. "That dratted old furnace!" She was
bursting into her parents' room, hysterically shaking her
mother. "Get up! Get up!" With a drowsy dignity her mother was saying, "Yes--I
know--peace--get paper morning--let me sleep." "It's fire! Fire! The house is afire!" Her mother sat up, a thick gray lock bobbing in front of one
eye, and said indignantly, "How perfectly preposterous!" Already Mr. Duke was out of bed, in smoke-prickly darkness,
flapping his hands in the air. "Never could find that globe.
Ought to have bedside light. Come, Mother, jump up! Theo, have
you got on a warm bathrobe?" He was cool. His voice trembled, but
only with nervousness. He charged down the back hall, Theo just behind. Mrs. Duke
remained at the head of the front stairs, lamenting, "Don't leave
me!" The flames were darting hissing heads into the hall. As Theo
looked they caught a box couch and ran over an old chest of
drawers. The heat seemed to slap her face. "Can't do anything. Get out of this. Wake the servants. You
take your mother down," grumbled Mr. Duke. Theo had her mother into a loose gown, shoes, and a huge
fleecy couch cover, and down on the front porch by the time Mr.
Duke appeared driving the maids--Lizzie a gorgon in curl
papers. "Huh! Back stairs all afire," he grunted, rubbing his chin.
His fingers, rubbing then stopping, showed that for a split
second he was thinking, "I need a shave." "Theo! Run down to the corner. Turn in alarm. I'll try to
phone. Then save things," he commanded. Moved by his coolness to a new passion of love Theo flung her
arm, bare as the sleeve of her bathrobe fell from it, about his
seamed neck, beseeching: "Don't save anything but the
cloisonné. Let 'em burn. Won't have to go in there, risk
your life for things. Here--let me phone!" Unreasoning she slammed the front door, bolted him out. She
shouted their address and "Fire--hustle alarm!" at the telephone
operator. In the largest drawing room she snatched bit after bit
of cloisonné from the cabinet and dumped them into a
wastebasket. Now the lower hall, at her back, was boiling with
flame-tortured smoke. The noise expanded from crackling to a
roar. The window on the porch was smashed. Her father's arm was
reaching up to the catch, unlocking the window. He was crawling
in. As the smoke encircled him he puffed like a man blowing out
water after a dive. Theo ran to him. "I didn't want you here! I have the
cloisonné--" As calmly as though he were arguing a point at cards he
mumbled, "Yes, yes, yes! Don't bother me. You forgot the two big
saras in the wall safe." While the paint on the balusters in the hall bubbled and
charred, and the heat was a pang in her lungs, he twirled the
knob of the safe behind the big picture and drew out two
cloisonné plates. Flames curled round the door jamb of the
room like fingers closing on a stick. "We're shut off!" Theo cried. "Yep. Better get out. Here. Drop that basket!" Mr. Duke snatched the cloisonné from her, dropped it,
hurled away his two plates, shoved her to the window he had
opened, helped her out on the porch. He himself was still in the
burning room. She gripped his arm when he tried to dart back. The
cloisonné was already hidden from them by puffs of
smoke. Mr. Duke glanced back. He eluded her; pulled his arm free;
disappeared in the smoke. He came back with a cheap china vase
that for a thing so small was monumentally ugly. As he swung out
of the window he said, "Your mother always thought a lot of that
vase." Theo saw through eyes stinging with smoke that his hair
had been scorched. Fire engines were importantly unloading at the corner, firemen
running up. A neighbor came to herd the Dukes into her house, and
into more clothes. Alone, from the room given to her by the neighbor, Theo
watched her home burn. The flames were leering out of all the
windows on the ground floor. Her father would never read the
three-volume history that was too valuable for soldiers. Now the
attic was glaring. Gone the elephant of a London traveling bag.
Woolly smoke curled out of the kitchen windows as a fireman
smashed them. Gone the fireless cooker that would not cook. She
laughed. "It's nicely cooked itself! Oh, I'm beastly. Poor
Mother. All her beautiful marked linen--" But she did not lose a sensation of running ungirdled, of
breathing Maytime air. Her father came in, dressed in the neighbor-host's corduroy
hunting coat, a pair of black dress trousers and red slippers.
His hair was conscientiously combed, but his fingers still
querulously examined the state of his unshaven chin. She begged: "Daddy dear, it's pretty bad, but don't worry. We
have plenty of money. We'll make arrangements--" He took her arms from about his neck, walked to the window.
The broken skeleton of their home was tombed in darkness as the
firemen controlled the flames. He looked at Theo in a puzzled
way. He said hesitatingly: "No, I won't worry. I guess it's all
right. You see--I set the house afire." She was silent, but her trembling fingers sought her lips as
he went on: "Shoveled hot coals from the furnace into kindling
bin in the basement. Huh! Yes. Used to be good furnace tender
when I was a real man. Peace bells had woke me up. Wanted to be
free. Hate destruction, but--no other way. Your mother wouldn't
let me sell the house. I was going mad, sticking there,
waiting--waiting for death. Now your mother will be willing to
come. Get a farm. Travel. And I been watching you. You couldn't
have had Stacy Lindstrom, long as that house bossed us. You
almost caught me, in the hall, coming back from the basement. It
was kind of hard, with house afire, to lie there in bed, quiet,
so's your mother wouldn't ever know--waiting for you to come wake
us up. You almost didn't, in time. Would have had to confess. Uh,
let's go comfort your mother. She's crying." Theo had moved away from him. "But it's criminal! We're
stealing--robbing the insurance company." The wrinkles beside his eyes opened with laughter. "No. Watched out for that. I was careful to be careless, and
let all the insurance run out last month. Huh! Maybe I won't
catch it from your mother for that, though! Girl! Look! It's
dawn!"</story>