<story title="THE ROYAL GAME" date="1925">
"Too bad!" Mr. Billingham murmured sym- pathetically.

Madelon was almost angry. She leaned across the table towards her companion.

"Speak to him, please," she begged. "It is impossible that we go on like this. It becomes an affair of charity. You dispense the money. Nobody earns anything. He thinks and dreams and talks of nothing but roulette. You wished him to make some enquiries about those people at Nice. He did nothing."

"Well, they've gone now, anyway," her companion remarked.

"Will you speak to him?" she persisted.

"Right away," Mr. Bilhngham promised. "Here he comes. Now you shall hear for yourself."

"Do not be too easy with him," she enjoined.

"Leave that to me," was the confident reply.

The Marquis drifted in from the Arcade to the glass-sheltered bar. He was happy and spruce. He had a mille's worth of counters in his pocket and the music of the whirling wheel in his ears. He greeted his niece and his friend with gay cordiality.

"A minute or two late, I fear," he apologised. "Let mine be the pleasure. Waiter!"

An approved order was given. The Marquis accepted a chair.

"Mr. Billingham has something to say to you, Uncle," Madelon confided.

"A little matter of business which arises, eh?" the Marquis asked. "Well, I am at your disposal."

"As a matter of fact," Mr. Billingham declared, "neither your niece nor I have had any fortune for the last few weeks, and, to put it bluntly, funds are running low. We think that it is time you bestirred yourself."

"Indeed yes, Uncle," Madelon intervened. "You spend morning, noon and night at the tables. You make no acquaintances. You take no initiative."

"You being, so to speak," Mr. Billingham went on, "the social bird of the party, we expect you to be more in evidence."

The Marquis gulped down his cocktail.

"You think that I am neglecting our interests —our joint interests?" he demanded, in a hurt tone.

"That idea has occurred to us," Mr. Billingham admitted.

"There is no doubt about it," Madelon said coldly.

The Marquis made signs to the waiter.

"I am," he announced, "in a position to prove that you have misjudged me. I have, in our joint interests, made the acquaintance of two gentlemen who possess the most amazing gifts. They need fresh blood and—er—introductions. I am arranging to provide them with both."

"What may their gifts be?" Mr. Billingham enquired.

"They are expert poker players," the Marquis explained. "Their knowledge of the game is indeed wonderful. Amongst my acquaintances there are several wealthy men to whom the tables are no longer a novelty. A game of cards amuses. I have promised to arrange something, to play myself, to bring you. We are to put up nothing and we are to have a third of the winnings."

Mr. Billingham sighed.

"Are your friends clever enough to put this through?" he asked.

"One of them," the Marquis confided, "was a professional entertainer for some years. His speciality was card tricks. The other learned the game upon an Atlantic liner."

"It is a primitive form of misappropriation, this," Mr. Billingham sighed, "but it depends, of course, upon the measure of skill which your friends possess. Invite them to a rehearsal. Have you pointed me out to them yet?"

"Not yet," the Marquis admitted.

"Bring them along to my sitting-room to-night, after dinner," Mr. Billingham enjoined. "Introduce me as an American tourist upon his travels, one of the jay birds with plenty of the dough. You may say that I only play a low game, but after a few whiskies and sodas I like to increase the stakes. I'll figure it out myself then if they're to be trusted."

The Marquis looked a little doubtful.

"You will lose your money," he ventured, "and it may not be possible to explain afterwards."

"Guess I'll fix that," Mr. Billingham promised. "Bring your friends along and I'll see what's doing."

When he ascended to his sitting-room that evening after dinner, Mr. Billingham prepared to dispense hospitality on a generous scale. There were two packs of unopened cards upon a green baize table, whiskies and sodas and a box of cigars upon the sideboard, besides a variety of liqueurs.

Presently there was a knock at the door and in response to Mr. Billingham's hearty invitation to enter there appeared the Marquis, Madelon, and the Marquis' two friends, whom he introduced as Mr. Conrad Adler and Mr. Blane T. Hackett of St. Louis. Mr. Conrad Adler was a trifle Semitic. He wore a black moustache, curly black hair, and tortoise shell glasses. Mr. Blane T. Hackett was of a different type—florid, large, and more American than Mr. Billingham himself. His hand-shake was painful, his tone almost vociferous. He eyed the preparations for the evening's entertainment with approval.

"Our friend, Mr. Adler," the Marquis explained, "is in the wine trade. He travels a great deal. Mr. Hackett is like yourself—an American bent on pleasure."

"And very glad to meet a fellow countryman over on this side," Mr. Hackett declared cordially. "You still in business, sir?"

"Only partly," Mr. Billingham confessed. "Linoleum."

"Boots," Mr. Hackett confided—"the Hackett Boot Company, out at St. Louis. I guess I'm like you—get tired of these foreign games. The sight of a couple of decks of cards and a few chips looks good to me. Shall we make it a small game?"

"Fifty francs ante, and a hundred francs rise?" Mr. Billingham suggested. "Will you join us, Marquis?"

"With pleasure," the latter assented. The four men sat down. Mr. Billingham distributed the chips, and accepted the money. A waiter, who made an unobtrusive appearance, served drinks and passed the cigars. The game proceeded and it was very soon apparent that it was proceeding very contrary to the expectations of Mr. Conrad Adler and his friend. On one occasion, when the former had shown, with a half apologetic air, four eights, having drawn three cards, and Mr. Billingham, with a quiet chuckle, had laid down four knaves, an explosion appeared to be imminent. The game was continued, however, although with the exception of their host the players became more and more silent. At the end of an hour the whole of the chips lay in front of Mr. Billingham. That gentleman paused to light a cigar.

"Seems to me I got all the luck to-night," he remarked. "What do you say, gentlemen,—shall we raise the stakes a bit? The game seems kinder quiet."

Mr. Conrad Adler glanced at his watch.

"I got to go," he mumbled. "I forgot I had an appointment over at the Casino."

There was an expression of pain upon Mr. Hackett's face.

"I'll be getting along too," he announced stiffly. "I don't seem to quite get the hang of this game."

"Eh?" Mr. Billingham ejaculated with ferocious emphasis.

Mr. Hackett opened his mouth and closed it again. His eyes were fixed upon the pile of counters in front of Mr. Billingham's place and the little roll of bills underneath his tumbler.

"Fact of it is," Mr. Hackett confided, "I don't think I know enough about this game for the present company."

"You'll learn," Mr. Billingham assured him cheerfully. "Any day that you feel like a little lesson, make the stakes worth while and I'll show you. Have another cigar before you go."

The two men took their leave, crestfallen, suspicious, and a little vituperative. The Marquis looked at his friend and gasped. Madelon came over and patted him on the shoulder.

"Clever dear!" she murmured.

"Say, that was nothing at all," Mr. Billingham assured her lightly. "Watch me!"

He threw a pack of cards into the air, brought one down from the ceiling, another from the sleeve of Madelon's dress, and a third from the back of his collar.

"Just a little lesson for you, Marquis," he said. "Now I'm going to let you have it straight. Card-sharping don't come inside our little scheme of life. Do you get that?"

"It really seems," Madelon sighed, "as though with gifts like yours some profitable use should be made of them."

"My dear," Mr. Billingham protested, "cheating at cards is a low-down game. We're out for adventures all right, but we're out to skin the worthless rich and to skin 'em our own way. You take my advice, Marquis, and don't you be seen speaking to that pair of crooks again. They'll get found out the first time they try a serious game with any man who knows his way about."

"But you are so much cleverer than they are," Madelon expostulated. "Couldn't you get hold of some really terrible people and win just a little of their money? I saw the most beautiful chinchilla cape yesterday, and so cheap!"

Mr. Billingham was playing idly with the cards.

"Do you," he asked the Marquis, "happen to know Madame Groosens?"

The Marquis shivered.

"The good God forbid!" he exclaimed.

"That horrible creature!" Madelon cried. "Every one in the club and at the Casino, too, hates her. She claims every one's stakes. She's always trying to bully the croupiers—an unspeakable person!"

"She has no friends," Mr. Billingham remarked, "and therefore to make her acquaintance should be easy. I heard her say that she preferred bridge and poker to all that gambling. Here is your task, Marquis. Make her acquaintance and bring her with two or three absolutely respectable people to a little game of poker. There shall be no cheating, but something might come of it."

"It is a horrible task," the Marquis complained, with a little shiver, "but I must confess that you intrigue me."

"See about it, then," Mr. Billingham enjoined, "and, by the by, you might remember this. Another ten days at the most sees our exchequer dry. I do not know what you have saved out of your share of our little adventures—you have perhaps added to them by your roulette wins—but as a co-operative society we're on the rocks." The Marquis rose to his feet.

"I will take a stroll through the Club," he observed.

"We will follow," Mr. Billingham agreed. "I feel like a little flutter myself. . . ."

The roulette room of the Club was crowded. Around the louis table people were standing two and three deep. Madelon touched Mr. Billingham on the arm. Almost opposite was the woman of whom they had spoken. They watched her for some moments. She was short and inclined to be fat, expensively dressed and with a profusion of jewellery. Her face was heavy and pallid, her mouth disagreeable, her eyes acquisitive. With her sallow, pendulous cheeks and occasional glimpses of illshaped teeth, she was irresistibly reminiscent of a soft and pudgy insect.

"They call her 'the yellow slug,'" Madelon whispered. "Watch her now."

She stood with a plaque in her hand, as though uncertain whether or not to risk it. People on either side of her made their stakes. Still she hesitated. The wheel spun, the number was announced. There was a plaque placed some time previously, almost in front of her upon the table. "Un cheval à moi," she called out shrilly to the croupier.

An Englishwoman seated on the same side of the table protested.

"Madame is mistaken," she exclaimed indignantly. "The plaque was mine."

There was the usual controversy. Madame Groosens ejaculated, shouted, pushed, and finally seized the money. The croupier looked remorseful. The chef awaited an appeal. The woman to whom the money belonged shrugged her shoulders.

"It is not worth while," was her only comment.

"Absolute robbery," Madelon murmured, as Madame Groosens thrust the plaques into her gold bag and left the table.

Mr. Billingham nodded.

"I'm glad we saw that," he declared. . . .

"Mademoiselle, I take my hat off to your uncle. Behold!"

The Marquis was offering his commiserations. It was most annoying to have one's stake claimed. He was glad that Madame had courage. These people who were not habituees threw down their plaques right and left and claimed everything.

"Uncle is really doing his best," Madelon whispered.

"He is earning good money," Mr. Billingham assented.

The second poker party in Mr. Billingham's room came off within the next few evenings. It consisted of Mr. Billingham himself, the Marquis, Madame Groosens, and two perfectly respectable acquaintances of the Marquis—Madame de Bernande, a well-known resident of Monte Carlo, and Lord Henerford, whom the Marquis had once met in Paris and who was also a well- known habitué.

The presence of Madame Groosens appeared to be somewhat of a surprise, and Madame de Bernande's greeting was cool in the extreme. The Marquis, however, who figured as host, exerted all his tact to create a feeling of friendliness. "Seems deuced odd to be playing poker down here," Lord Henerford remarked. "One does get rather fed up with these other games, though."

"I play poker at my villa once a week," Madame de Bernande announced. "Some of you must join me there one evening. I expect your friend Mr. Billingham plays very well—most Americans do."

"Nothing out of the way, madame," Mr. Billingham assured her. "When I was in business in New York we used to play Saturday nights at the country club and I played coming across on the steamer."

"A risky proceeding," Lord Henerford murmured.

"I guess I can generally size people up," Mr. Billingham declared. "Besides, the gangs who work the steamers are pretty well-known. I wouldn't say they had much chance—on the Southern route, anyway."

The game proceeded without event. The Marquis and Mr. Billingham were excellent joint hosts and they kept the game from flagging. Sandwiches and other forms of refreshment were handed around, and Lord Henerford declared that Mr. Billingham's cigars were the best he had smoked in Monte Carlo. As the evening wore on, Mr. Billingham more than once showed signs of some perturbation. He looked at his cards on several occasions before he threw them in and he paid marked attention to Madame Groosens' play. She, to her intense satisfaction, became in time almost the only winner. A pile of chips and counters was gathered in front of her, by the side of her gold bag. Her little eyes twinkled, her covetous mouth was twisted into a satisfied smile.

Madame de Bernande whispered at last in MadeIon's ear:

"My dear, what induced your uncle to ask that horrible woman here? She robs every one downstairs and makes life a torment to the croupiers."

"My uncle is very good-natured," Madelon sighed, "but indeed she almost invited herself."

Mr. Billingham was dealing. A very considerable jack-pot had been opened and it was Madame Groosens' turn to take cards.

"Three," she demanded.

Mr. Billingham threw three cards face downwards upon the table. Madame Groosens apparently discarded three and held out her hand to draw the three which had been given her. Suddenly, Madelon, who was standing by the fireplace, dropped a tumbler with a little crash. Everyone started and looked round. There was a moment's pause. Then Mr. Billingham's voice rang out, clear and sharp.

"Madame," he insisted, "don't move! Don't touch your cards!"

His left hand suddenly imprisoned hers.

"Ladies and gentlemen," he announced, "I regret to say that Madame Groosens has been cheating. I have been watching her. This time I am convinced."

The woman was absolutely incapable of speech. She glared at her accuser with an expression of blank and utter amazement. The natural venom of her face, however, destroyed its attempted innocence.

"Don't move!" Mr. Billingham repeated. "I gave you three cards. Lord Henerford, be so good as to see how many lie in front of Madame."

"Only two," Lord Henerford declared.

"Now lift her reticule."

Lord Henerford did as he was bidden.

"There is another card there," he said producing it.

"That," Mr. Billingham pointed out, "is the third card. Now lift that handkerchief which has been lying on the table by her side all the time."

Lord Henerford obeyed. Underneath the handkerchief another card was concealed.

"Now, Madame, show your hand," Mr. Billingham ordered.

Madame Groosens, still speechless, did as she was told. She held a pair of aces. In obedience to a gesture, Lord Henerford turned up the card under the handkerchief. It was another ace.

"The trick is a simple one," Mr. Billingham explained. "I've seen it done on the steamer more than once. I never expected to see it in company like this. When I gave her three cards, Madame discarded one, but pushed it with her sleeve under the reticule. She was helping herself to the one underneath the handkerchief which had been waiting there for the occasion—the third ace. You see? She would have scooped the pool."

Madame Groosens found words at last. Her abuse was violent, her statements vehement, but both seemed utterly futile. Everyone listened to her coldly.

"If Madame Groosens had not kept that ace underneath her handkerchief, if she had not put it there herself, who else would have been likely to?"

Mr. Billingham demanded. "Everyone saw me give three cards upon the table. How did that third card—the one she wanted to get rid of—get underneath her reticule?"

Madame Groosens sprang to her feet and commenced stuffing her winnings into her bag. The Marquis, however, held her wrist.

"Madame," he insisted, "this is a serious affair. You must kindly leave that money where it is."

"You, ladies and gentlemen," Mr. Billingham added, moving towards the bell, "are the best judges of what should be done. I suggest that I send for the manager of the hotel and a representative of the Casino."

Madame Groosens sat down heavily. She had a sudden and an awful vision of the joy with which this substantiated charge against her would be received. She had a vision of life without Monte Carlo. She shook in every limb.

"It is all a mistake!" she gasped.

"Mistakes of such a nature," the Marquis commented, "do not occur."

"You can take your money," Madame Groosens exclaimed passionately—"take it back. I am innocent, but this shall not be spoken of. You can have your money. I will go!"

Mr. Billingham walked to the door, locked it and returned with the key in his pocket.

"Madame de Bernande," he said, "and you, Lord Henerford, I am an American and I don't quite know how you treat a case like this. I guess I'd be glad of some advice."

"The woman should be punished. She should be exposed," Madame de Bernande declared.

"Without a doubt something should be done," Lord Henerford assented, helping himself to a whisky and soda.

"But I never touched the cards," Madame Groosens protested hysterically. "I took what were given to me."

"I guess you may as well cut that out," Mr. Billingham said shortly. "I am a man who is accustomed to being believed, and I tell you to your face that I have seen you cheat and so have the others."

"There is no possible doubt about it," Madame de Bernande agreed.

Madame Groosens leaned back in the chair, distracted, vicious, impotent. Mr. Billingham took the pile of notes and counters and divided them into heaps. He returned to each an equal portion. "I guess that leaves us pretty well as we were," he pointed out. "The next thing for us to decide is what ought we to do about this lady."

"Do about me?" she gasped. "You've taken my money. You've lied about me. You've insulted me"

"She is always like this," the Marquis interrupted, with an apologetic little gesture. "We have had warning enough below from thev croupiers."

"If you think, madame," Mr. Billingham said sternly, "that you're going to get out of this scotfree, you're making a big mistake. I guess you've run up against the wrong crowd this time. How much you've made by cheating people all your life as you tried to cheat us to-night, no one can tell, but some of those dollars you're going to refund. That's a sure thing!"

"This is interesting," the Marquis remarked. "What do you propose?"

"I propose, ladies and gentlemen," Mr. Billingham continued, "that we adopt one of two courses.

We either publish an account of what has transpired this evening socially and to the managers of the Casino and the Sporting Club, who, I am inclined to believe, would welcome such information, or we fine Madame a certain sum which shall be entrusted to one of us for distribution amongst certain approved charities."

"I," Madame de Bernande said, "am in favour of reporting Madame to the authorities."

"I, on the other hand," the Marquis intervened, "am not absolutely certain that that would entirely exclude her from the use of the Rooms. I am therefore in favour of making her pay."

"And I, if I have a voice in the matter," Madelon echoed.

"I should make her stump up," Lord Henerford agreed. "Touch 'em through their pockets more readily than in any other way."

"That goes, then," Mr. Billingham decided. "Madame, on receipt of a cheque for two thousand pounds, which I shall devote to certain charities which I have already in my mind, you may leave this room. If you hesitate for more than twenty seconds I shall ring the bell and ask for the Manager."

Madame Groosens hesitated for less than twenty. She wrote the cheque and she left the room, with a venomous backward glance which few of them ever forgot. The little party broke up soon afterwards, leaving Mr. Billingham, the Marquis and MadeIon alone. Mr. Billingham, in an enterprising frame of mind, amused himself bringing cards from the chimney, from under the carpet, even fluttering down from the ceiling.

"May we ask," Madelon demanded, "to what charities you propose to devote that little cheque?" Mr. Billingham smiled blandly.

"Charity," he replied, "begins at home!"

"Is poker really a game of skill?" Madelon asked, as she and Mr. Billingham paced the Terrace after dinner a few nights later.

"I shall probably be able to answer that question to-morrow morning," her companion replied, a little grimly. "I have promised to make up a game to-night with some of the New York crowd. I don't much fancy it."

Madelon laughed softly.

"Why, my dear man," she exclaimed, "you can do what you like with them!"

Mr. Billingham shook his head a little sadly.

"In a way we are friends," he explained. "They are fellow club-men. I cannot treat them as I would Mrs. Groosens. So far as any manipulation of the cards is concerned we meet on equal terms."

"Then don't gamble," she begged. "Madame Groosens' two thousand isn't going to last us for ever."

"If I don't gamble," Mr. Billingham objected, "I must lose. Poker's kind of a queer game that way. The man who sits too tight at the stakes this crowd play is bound to get it in the neck."

"Whom are you playing with?" she enquired. Mr. Billingham inclined his head towards the harbour.

"With Millionaire Frost and his crowd."

"On the yacht?"

Mr. Billingham nodded.

"I've got to get down there in a few minutes," he confided. "What are you doing?"

"I'm going to the opera after the first act, to Madame de Bernande's box. You can leave me at the door as you pass—and good luck to you! Remember my chinchilla cape, and do not bluff!" . . .

Mr. Billingham looked for a moment or two almost wistfully after Madelon's slim form as she passed into the Casino. Then, with a little sigh, he went on his way down the steps, along the quay, across the drawbridge, to be received with much respect by a smart-looking steward and ushered into the saloon of the famous yacht "The Flying Dutchman." Here four or five men were still sitting over their wine. The host of the party—a thick-set, prosperous-looking New Yorker—waved his hand cordially.

"Glad to see you, Billingham. Take a seat and try my Madeira before we get to business. Shake hands with Senator Curtis—Mr. Billingham. I guess you know the rest of the crowd."

Mr. Billingham accepted the seat, exchanged greetings all round and drank a glass of wine. They were a typical little gathering of New Yorkers—opulent, full of good-nature and friendliness, —and when they moved to the smoke-room and sat down at the poker table everyone was on the best of terms with himself and his neighbour. Only Mr. Billingham was for a moment thoughtful. He had paused to glance through the porthole across the little glittering stretch of water to the flaming lights of the Casino. He pulled himself together, however, with barely an effort, at the rattling of the chips.

"A hundred dollars ante, a thousand dollars rise—how's that?" the host proposed. "It's steep," Mr. Billingham commented. "I've seen you play the same game at the Manhattan," one of his acquaintances observed. "And anyway it's no use playing for nuts."

"I'm agreeable to whatever stakes you generally play, gentlemen," Mr. Billingham acquiesced. "I guess it will take three of a kind to get me curious."

"You sit tight and you'll win a wad," Millionaire Frost declared. "We're all fool bluffers here. The Senator's the only man who understands the game and he loses."

The chips were apportioned, the deal commenced, and the game proceeded. Mr. Billingham, playing with the utmost care, managed just to hold his own for the first part of the evening. At half-past eleven his host glanced at the clock.

"We're an early crowd here, Sam," he said. "Twelve o'clock sees us through. What do you say to starting a couple of rounds of jack-pots?"

"I'm agreeable," Mr. Billingham assented readily. "I was kind of set on seeing the folk out of the Opera, anyway."

A round of jack-pots proceeded with varying fortunes. Mr. Billingham saw his stock of chips, notwithstanding the utmost caution, materially reduced, and as each chip represented a hundred or a thousand dollars according to its colour, the fact was not without its significance. The last jackpot of the game Mr. Billingham himself opened. Every one came in and every one drew three cards, excepting the host, who drew two, and Mr. Billingham, who took one and started the betting with the limit—a thousand dollars. He was seen by every one until it came to the turn of his host, who raised him a thousand dollars. Mr. Billingham without hesitation raised the bid another thousand. The others dropped out. Thenceforward it became a duel. The betting reached ten thousand dollars. Millionaire Frost relit his cigar, studied his cards and looked across at his adversary.

"Say, ain't we wasting our breath like this?" he demanded. "It stands at ten thousand dollars just now. What about the doubling game?"

"I'm agreeable," Mr. Billingham replied without hesitation.

"Twenty thousand dollars, then," Millionaire Frost proposed.

"Forty thousand," Mr. Billingham rejoined.

There was a little chorus of exclamations and chaff.

"Guess you've run up against something, my lad," Senator Curtis observed, with a chuckle. "It's a great game, that doubling game!"

Millionaire Frost studied his cards once more, scratched his head and hesitated. Finally he threw them down on the table.

"I'm letting you have it, Billingham," he announced. "I reckon you've got me. In any case I've quit being inquisitive."

"What did you get, anyway, Frost?" his friend Senator Curtis enquired.

"Only a pair of kings," was the regretful reply. "I kept a kicker and threw two, to put him off, but he wasn't having any. No good seeing him. He drew one card and opened. He must have opened with two pairs, which had me beat, to start with."

"Say, what had you?" the Senator enquired, turning to Mr. Billingham.

The latter hesitated for a single moment.

"I'd have you understand," he explained diffidently, "that this isn't the kind of game I generally play. I picked up the eight, nine, ten, knave of spades and the knave of hearts. I opened the jack-pot, pushed the knave of hearts here to show you my openers," he went on, disclosing it, "and drew for a straight flush."

"And what did you get?" the other demanded. Mr. Billingham turned his cards face upwards. He had still the eight, nine, ten, knave of spades and the two of hearts.

"Bust!" he pointed out.

They all gazed at the cards open-mouthed. There was a roar of laughter. The Senator leaned across and patted Mr. Billingham on the back.

"You've put one over on the old man," he declared. "Say, Frost, what about it?"

Millionaire Frost laughed good-humouredly.

"A fine bit of play," he pronounced. "We'll have a bottle and a sandwich and drink your health, Mr. Billingham!"

Mr. Billingham was just in time to meet MadeIon as she came out of the Opera. She had said good-bye to Madame de Bernande, and she welcomed him with a smile of pleasure.

"I knew Uncle wouldn't be here, although he promised," she said.

"I hurried round," Mr. Billingham confided, "to see how you felt about a bite of supper."

"I should love it," she declared. "But tell me first, please—you didn't bluff?"

"Not exactly what you might call bluffing," Mr. Billingham replied evasively, as he tucked her hand through his arm, and started across the Square.

</story>