<story title="THE NUMBERS OF DEATH" date="1925">
When the mists roll down from La Turbie and the grey clouds hug the sides of the mountains, Monte Carlo is very far from being itself. The red-coated members of the orchestra at the Café de Paris move inside the building, the waiters stand like wraiths amidst a deserted wilderness of tables. Even a winner leaving the Casino— most easily recognisable of all human beings— forbears to whistle as he descends the steps. But when the sun shines down from a cloudless sky of perfect blue, and the women have trooped out like butterflies to drink aperitifs under the umbrella-sheltered tables, and the orchestra is playing an Italian love song, and there is a lively murmur of conversation, and the chink of ice against the glass, all is well with life, and Monte Carlo is a very different place.

Mr. Samuel T. Billingham, with Madelon de Felan for his companion and a pleasantly clouded wineglass on the table by his side, submitted cheerfully to the relaxing influence of his surroundings. He even viewed the approach of the Marquis, Madeira's uncle, with toleration, if not without some apprehension.

"I can't say that I like that fixed smile on your uncle's face," he remarked.

She watched her troublesome relation critically, and sighed.

"Jaunty, too," she murmured—"always a bad sign."

The Marquis came up with a wave of his hat. Mr. Billingham made signs to a waiter.

"Just one cocktail, perhaps," the newcomer conceded, "although it is a little early for me.... I foolishly came out this morning with almost empty pockets. Have you such a thing as a mille, MadeIon?"

She laughed scornfully.

"Am I the sort of girl," she asked, "who goes about with milles in her pocket? I have no money at all with me."

"Perhaps Mr. Billingham," the Marquis proposed tentatively.

Mr. Billingham considered the matter.

"How much have you lost this morning?" he enquired.

The Marquis coughed.

"Very little," he declared, straightening his tie. "I brought very little with me. My numbers are turning up, though. I have fixed upon a table where my luck seems to have definitely established itself."

Mr. Billingham withdrew a five-hundred-franc note from his pocket-book and handed it to the Marquis, who departed hastily, after gulping down his refreshment.

"Seems to me that game's got quite a hold upon your uncle," his benefactor observed thoughtfully.

"It is the one curse of the place for us," MadeIon assented, with a sigh. "It keeps us always poor. If he cannot go to the Casino he is miserable —like a child in trouble or disgrace. If he goes, he loses. It is always the same. If we had not met you a month ago I cannot imagine what would have become of us."

It was not often that Mr. Billingham's attention wandered when Madelon was speaking, but at this moment he certainly had a lapse. His eyes were fixed upon an approaching figure—a man, tall and thin, with a long, hatchet- shaped face, a terrible mouth, and deep-set eyes. He was dressed with unusual sombreness, in clothes of a transatlantic cut, surmounted by a black Homburg, and he walked towards the outskirts of the scattered company, looking neither to the right nor to the left. Mr. Billingham half-rose to his feet.

"Hullo, Ned!" he exclaimed in welcoming fashion.

The behaviour of this presumed acquaintance of his was, to say the least of it, singular. He scarcely even glanced at Mr. Billingham, whose hand was already outstretched, and passed on, ignoring his greeting. His right hand was in his jacket pocket, and Mr. Billingham, who had formed the habit of quick observation, saw something menacing in the fact.

"Who is your friend who doesn't know you?" Madelon enquired.

Mr. Billingham, recovered from his first surprise, was deeply interested.

"That's Ned Gunby, the biggest man they've got in the New York police," he confided. "I've never known him abroad before. I'd like some to know who he's after!"

"I should be sorry to be that person," Madelon confessed, with a little shiver. "I think he is an awful man."

"Ned hands out the goods all right," Mr. Billingham affirmed. "They say that from the start he has arrested more dangerous criminals than any man in the police force."

"He seems to be very much in earnest about something just now," Madelon observed. They both watched his progress with riveted attention, whilst he threaded his way through the maze of tables. At the furthest table, close to a shed in which was displayed an automobile for which lottery tickets were being sold, a man was seated alone, leaning back in his chair and with his face half concealed by a newspaper which he was reading. He showed no signs of being aware of the detective's approach, and even Mr. Billingham failed to catch that surreptitious movement of the paper and stealthy glance. What followed was a matter of seconds. The detective, with his hand half-withdrawn from his jacket pocket, had reached his destination.

"Jim Robin," he said, in a harsh, unpleasant voice, "throw 'em up! Quick as hell! I want you I" The answer was a tiny flash of fire, a sharp report and an empty seat. Ned Gunby, for once in his life late in the draw, spun round like a teetotum and collapsed against the table. For a single second conversation all around was entirely suspended. There was a tense stillness, with only the music as a background. Then there was a rush from all quarters. A gendarme from across the road was actually betrayed into running. A few women screamed. Every one asked breathlessly what had happened. Mr. Billingham shook his head as he leaned over the body of his acquaintance.

"He's sure got his," he decided. . . .

The authorities at Monte Carlo are adepts at wiping from the face of the earth all traces of tragical events. In a few moments ijhe body of the wounded man was whisked away in a closed motorcar. A functionary in plain clothes, who seemed to have arrived by magic, patiently interviewed the few spectators, with indifferent results. No one appeared to have seen the fugitive distinctly. He had, without a doubt, escaped by passing behind the shed where the car was exhibited and mingling with the crowd of people entering the Casino, but, although several had seen him disappear, there was not a single credible item of information as to his later movements. The hand of justice was temporarily, at any rate, baulked.

Late that afternoon, Mr. Billingham, in response to an urgent message, was driven to the little whitewashed hospital on the slopes of the hill and listened to the last words of a dying man. The bullet had found its way into the detective's lungs and speech was difficult. Nevertheless, he said what he had to say.

"Reckon I'm too old for the job, Mr. Billingham," he confessed, "but I'll hand it to him that it was the quickest draw I ever saw."

"It was that, Ned," was his visitor's sympathetic assent. "You don't want to talk too much. Tell me who he was, what you wanted him for, and what I can do for you."

"That was James Robin, who murdered Hammon, the banker, last year—got him fixed on that Bundell poisoning case, too," the detective announced. "I've got all the papers on the table there —the extradition warrant, and there's this," the suffering man added, lifting his badge from under his pillow and passing it across. "You've puzzled me more than once, Billingham, but if you're a crook you're a straight one. Take this on for me. James Robin ain't got no right to live. He's a white-livered skunk. Gave his own pals away in although several had seen him disappear, there was not a single credible item of information as to his later movements. The hand of justice was temporarily, at any rate, baulked.

Late that afternoon, Mr. Billingham, in response to an urgent message, was driven to the little whitewashed hospital on the slopes of the hill and listened to the last words of a dying man. The bullet had found its way into the detective's lungs and speech was difficult. Nevertheless, he said what he had to say.

"Reckon I'm too old for the job, Mr. Billingham," he confessed, "but I'll hand it to him that it was the quickest draw I ever saw."

"It was that, Ned," was his visitor's sympathetic assent. "You don't want to talk too much. Tell me who he was, what you wanted him for, and what I can do for you."

"That was James Robin, who murdered Hammon, the banker, last year—got him fixed on that Bundell poisoning case, too," the detective announced. "I've got all the papers on the table there —the extradition warrant, and there's this," the suffering man added, lifting his badge from under his pillow and passing it across. "You've puzzled me more than once, Billingham, but if you're a crook you're a straight one. Take this on for me. James Robin ain't got no right to live. He's a white-livered skunk. Gave his own pals away in although several had seen him disappear, there was not a single credible item of information as to his later movements. The hand of justice was temporarily, at any rate, baulked.

Late that afternoon, Mr. Billingham, in response to an urgent message, was driven to the little whitewashed hospital on the slopes of the hill and listened to the last words of a dying man. The bullet had found its way into the detective's lungs and speech was difficult. Nevertheless, he said what he had to say.

"Reckon I'm too old for the job, Mr. Billingham," he confessed, "but I'll hand it to him that it was the quickest draw I ever saw."

"It was that, Ned," was his visitor's sympathetic assent. "You don't want to talk too much. Tell me who he was, what you wanted him for, and what I can do for you."

"That was James Robin, who murdered Hammon, the banker, last year—got him fixed on that Bundell poisoning case, too," the detective announced. "I've got all the papers on the table there —the extradition warrant, and there's this," the suffering man added, lifting his badge from under his pillow and passing it across. "You've puzzled me more than once, Billingham, but if you're a crook you're a straight one. Take this on for me. James Robin ain't got no right to live. He's a white-livered skunk. Gave his own pals away in the Bennett case, or he'd have been sent to the penitentiary then."

"I guess that's so," the other acquiesced. "I remember the whole affair. Anything you knowlikely to help about his movements here?"

"He's been going by the name of Braund— James Braund," the detective confided. "There's a woman with him—picked her up on this side, I reckon. They had rooms at the Boston Hotel, up at the back. The police here are watching it, but I've told them you're in the force and will take over. Shake hands, Billingham. Glad to have an American round, anyway."

The two men shook hands solemnly, and the nurse, who saw the things which Ned Gunby felt, hurried up. Mr. Billingham stepped back into the world of sunshine and flowers and music, with a mist before his eyes. Death in such surroundings was so unrealisable. There was suddenly a chill in the air and a note of discord in the music, which seemed to have become blatant. Mr. Billingham entered upon his task with a heavy heart.

With Madelon's help as interpreter, Mr. Billingham had several long conversations with the local functionaries, and was enabled to make certain arrangements towards the prosecution of his mission. He spent that night seated in an easychair in the bedroom which had been allotted at the Boston Hotel to Monsieur and Madame Braund, and which had remained unoccupied since the time of the tragedy. At three o'clock, however, there was the sound of feminine footsteps outside and the turning of a key in the door. Mr. Billingham switched on the lights, and the woman who had entered screamed.

"Don't disturb yourself, madame," he begged. "I've taken over Ned Gunby's job. Where's your husband?"

The woman, after a moment's hesitation, slipped off her cloak, seated herself in an easy-chair, and lit a cigarette. She was a person of somewhat flamboyant type, with hair of an almost startling shade of red, and eyes unnaturally darkened.

"Who are you, anyway?" she demanded.

Mr. Billingham disclosed his badge.

"I'm out to get Braund," he declared, "and I'm going to have him."

She shrugged her shoulders, crossed her legs, and leaned a little further back, with her hands clasped behind her head.

"Seems to me you're looking for trouble," she remarked. "What do you know about Braund?"

"Your husband," Mr. Billingham observed.

She laughed shrilly.

"Not much," she scoffed. "If you want to know the truth, I picked him up at the Carlton three weeks ago."

Mr. Billingham was silent for several moments. He took out his cigar- case.

"Guess I'll smoke, too," he observed. "Anything to drink up here?"

The woman went to a chiffonier and produced a bottle of brandy, a bottle of whisky and some soda water. She helped herself liberally to brandy, and Mr. Billingham mixed himself a whisky and soda.

"So you ain't his wife?" he said at last.

"Thank the Lord I'm not," she answered. "I shouldn't care to be, in this mix-up. I've come here to get my things, and I'm going to move into a little flat round the corner."

"Where is Braund?" Mr. Billingham asked abruptly.

The woman laughed.

"How should I know?" she retorted. "And if I did know, can you see me telling you?"

"You might avoid a heap of trouble that way," was the suggestive rejoinder.

The lady smiled.

"Look here," she said, "I'm no chicken, Mr. Billingham—or whatever your name is. There's nothing wrong with me, except that I took up with a man who turned out to be a criminal. That don't make me one. There's nothing coming to me from you or anyone else."

"What sort of a chap is he, this Braund?" Mr. Billingham enquired.

The woman hesitated for a moment. Her tone was a little more serious.

"A devil!" she answered. "Hard as they make 'em!"

"Treat you well?"

"No better than he ought to," was the somewhat indifferent reply. "I shouldn't call him a spender."

Mr. Billingham sipped his whisky and soda.

"I want Braund," he confided. "I want him badly."

"How's the detective he shot?" the woman demanded.

"Dead," Mr. Billingham told her solemnly. The woman was a little shocked.

"I suppose it had to be one of them," she mused. "They tell me that if my friend had been arrested it would have been the chair for him."

"It certainly would have been, and it will be," Mr. Billingham assented.

"You think you'll get him, then?" she asked curiously.

"I do," was the confident reply, "and you're going to help me."

She stared at him.

"Seem to have got me sized up," she remarked. "Do you think that I'd give him away if I knew where he was?"

"You're not a fool," her companion argued. "You're a woman of the world. Braund's no more use to you. You're through with him all right. Sooner or later we shall get him. Why not have your bit out of it?"

The woman shivered. It seemed as though Mr. Billingham was being wilfully callous.

"You must think I'm as cold-blooded as Ned Gunby himself," she muttered, throwing away her cigarette.

"I sized you up as having some sense," Mr. Billingham answered slowly. "This man ain't been anything special to you, and you can take it from me he's a real out and out, downright bad 'un. He'd throw you or any other woman on the dirtheap if it helped him any. He's not going to worry any more about you. All he's thinking of is his own skin. As for you, the thing's come your way. You haven't been out to look for it. Why not put a matter of five thousand dollars in your pocket?"

The woman sat for a moment transfixed. Mr. Billingham, watching her closely, found it difficult to follow her train of thought. Presently she sat up a little in her chair, helped herself to another cigarette, and drank her brandy slowly and deliberately.

"I've never done any one a dirty trick like that," she said.

There was a gleam in Mr. Billingham's eyes. She knew, then!

"It isn't a very dirty trick," he protested. "James Braund in Monte Carlo is like a rat in a pit. He can't get out. We shall have him all right, but the sooner the better. There's ten thousand dollars reward for him. I'm offering you half."

"Cash?" she demanded.

"Cash," he assented, tapping his pocket-book.

She had the air of a woman tortured by ugly thoughts. Presently she helped herself to more brandy.

"It doesn't matter what you say," she declared. "It's a dirty piece of work."

"Life here," Mr. Billingham reminded her, "is expensive for a woman like you who needs jewellery and swell clothes and that sort of outfit. Bit anxious sometimes, eh? Why not make yourself sure for a time? Five thousand dollars at to-day's exchange is a lot of money."

She sat for a moment looking at her over-manicured fingers.

"What is it you want me to do?" she enquired, in a voice to which she seemed afraid to listen. "You know where Braund is," Mr. Billingham said. "Help me to put the irons on him."

"You are sure he'll go to the chair?" she asked, with a queer little quiver in her voice.

"He'll go there anyway," was the confident reply. "The only question is whether you make five thousand dollars out of it or whether you don't."

"Five thousand dollars!" she repeated slowly. She seemed to be thinking about the sum. Presently she picked up a piece of paper, and, with a gold pencil which hung from her reticule, she worked out the amount in francs. There was a covetous gleam in her eyes.

"I'll do it," she decided.

"Of course you will," Mr. Billingham observed, in a tone which was almost matter of fact. "You'd be stark, raving mad if you hesitated. . . . Go on!"

She looked at him curiously.

"I've heard of you," she reflected. "Samuel Billingham, isn't it? You've been mixed up in some queer cases, but no one seems to know whether you're on the straight or the other side of the fence. How's your nerve?"

Mr. Billingham smiled.

"I guess that's all right," he assured her. "Got your gun handy?"

He tapped his hip-pocket.

"Would you like to take him right now," she asked—"in a quarter of an hour's time, that is?"

"Suit me O.K.," Mr. Billingham acquiesced. "I've handcuffs in my pocket and a car on the other side of the Square."

The woman rose to her feet. She seemed in some subtle sort of way to have changed, to have lost her airy—almost brazen—ease of manner, to be anticipating already grave things. Mr. Billingham watched her and it seemed to him that she was still hesitating.

"Five thousand dollars," he said reflectively, "at to-day's rate of exchange, is seventy-five thousand francs."

She sighed like one who faces the inevitable. Then she glanced at the watch on her wrist.

"Braund," she confided, her voice lower and thicker, her eyes fixed upon the ground, "has papers or money—perhaps a large sum of money— in this room, which he would not trust me to fetch. I came on to see whether the coast was clear. If I lift that blind at four o'clock and turn on the electric light, he will ascend."

"They will be waiting for him below," Mr. Billingham reminded her.

"The front door is locked," she told him, "and we all have latch-keys. The concierge is not on duty. I have seen to that—I and a hundred francs. At four o'clock he will enter if I turn the lights on and lift the blind, but when you hear his step on the stair, be ready."

Mr. Billingham nodded.

"What about you?" he asked.

She shivered.

"He is watching now," she replied. "I dare not try to get away. I shall hide in the corner there, behind the wardrobe. Remember that if you make a mess of this," she went on anxiously, "it will be my life as well as yours. You know what sort of man James Braund is. You know how he treated Ned Gunby. You get no more mercy from him than from a stone."

"Nor he from me," Mr. Billingham assured her grimly.

They compared watches. It was ten minutes to four. The woman helped herself feverishly to more brandy. Mr. Billingham followed suit with another whisky and soda. Then he took out his gun and looked at it, laid a pair of handcuffs on the table, and lit another cigar. The woman watched him and apparently she was satisfied. The fingers which held his match did not once quiver, his face seemed somehow to have hardened and tightened. He had all the air of a man who expects to confront a crisis and is prepared for it. Of the two, the woman was by far the more nervous. Nevertheless, when four o'clock came she turned on the other switches of electric light, touched the spring of the blind and threw open the shutters.

"Good luck!" she muttered—"to both of us!" The seconds passed, perhaps a minute—then the step upon the stair. The woman crept into her hiding-place. She had dabbed her face plentifully with powder, but little drops of perspiration had broken through on to her forehead, her lips were vivid streaks of scarlet, in her eyes was fear. Mr. Billingham stood with his left hand upon the bedpost, and in his right hand was his gun. The footstep was nearer now. The door was suddenly pushed open and Mr. Billingham's voice rang out, crisp and terse.

"Hands up—right up above your head! Up, I say!"

For a single second the man who stood upon the threshold seemed as though his right hand would dive downward. Then he looked into that tiny black space, saw the lights flash upon the plating of the revolver, and saw behind, Billingham's face. His hands went up.

"Who the hell are you?" he demanded.

"Billingham of New York, and I've taken on Ned Gunby's job," was the quick reply.

The man with his hands upraised was still a formidable-looking person. He was of little more than medium height, but strongly built, dark, with crisp, black hair, olive complexion and eyes with violet rims underneath, which spoke of sleepless nights. There was about him, somehow or other, an air of fastidiousness, although his linen was crumpled and his boots ill-brushed. All the time it seemed as though his brain were working—his eyes searching the room.

"Where's Anna?" he enquired.

Mr. Billingham ignored the question. With his left hand he picked up the handcuffs and came a step nearer.

"Lower your hands slowly," he enjoined, "until they point towards me. Keep your wrists together!"

The man obeyed. He was breathing heavily.

"Stop there," Mr. Billingham ordered.

He stopped, but his eyes semed filled with a tortured light. He seemed to be wondering, speculating. Suddenly, with a movement incredibly swift, he was in Mr. Billingham's grasp, Billingham's left arm underneath his hands to keep them from that downward dive. A moment later there was a click, and the handcuffs were on. Mr. Billingham coolly produced the gun from the man's hip- pocket and thrust it into his own.

"That seems all right," he said. "What did you come back here to look for, Braund?"

"Find out," was the contemptuous reply. There was a sob from behind the chiffonier. The man turned his head slowly. The woman crept into sight. Braund only nodded quietly.

"Like all the rest," he muttered. "You couldn't be trusted. Do you know, woman, that it is my life you've given away—my life for a few dirty dollars."

"I'm sorry," she gasped. "You shouldn't have killed him, James. They'd have got you, anyhow."

Mr. Billingham, with the situation arranged to his liking, felt completely at his ease. He took out his pocket-book and, from a wonderful pile of bills, counted out seventy-five mille notes. Notwithstanding the tenseness of the moment, the woman could not keep the covetous gleam from her eyes.

"I guess those are yours," Mr. Billingham said. "You needn't worry that you've done anything dirty, either. He was my man from the start. Come along, James Braund. We'll put you somewhere until we can arrange to get you across the pond."

The woman fingered the bills and watched them depart, Mr. Billingham holding his captor by the arm. As they passed through the door, she called out.

"I am sorry, Jim," she cried. "I'm sorry I did it."

"You can go to hell!" was the bitter rejoinder. . . .

The two men walked down the narrow stairs and across the darkened hall, Mr. Billingham with his revolver in his hand, and every sense alert. They reached the street, however, in safety, reached the automobile, and drove to the sternlooking police-office down in Monaco, where a little crowd of functionaries was awaiting them. Mr. Billingham remained until the iron door of a very formidable-looking cell was locked upon his captive. Then he drew a sigh of relief, mingled with some other less comprehensible emotion.

"Well, well!" he exclaimed. "Some evening!" The trio—Madelon, her uncle, the Marquis, and Mr. Billingham—were seated at their favourite table in front of the Café de Paris. An unusual silence had reigned for some minutes, which was broken at last by Madelon.

"I am dissatisfied with life," she sighed, sipping her Dubonnet.

Her uncle glanced at her reprovingly.

"My dear Madelon!" he protested. "Surely that is ungrateful to our kind friend who has provided so generously for our entertainment."

She made a little grimace.

"I have a complaint against him," she declared. "He provides me with no one to flirt with and he ignores me himself. He has become a hero and he is all the time distrait. I think that his head is turned."

"Why should I provide you with any one to flirt with?" Mr. Billingham objected. "I guess that's my privilege."

"It might have been," Madelon admitted, "if you had been persistent, if you had shown rather more desire to be in my company, to whisper things in my ear, to look as though my presence made the difference to you of happiness or misery. But behold, for five minutes this morning after my arrival, you sat and you looked towards the Casino and you said nothing. You might even have held my fingers—I purposely let them stay in your hand. And there are other things." Mr. Billingham groaned.

"Go on with it, then," he begged. "Let me know the full extent of my misdeeds."

"Your passion for me," she complained, "has given way to another. You are as bad as my uncle. You Spend your time in the Casino. You have become a gambler. When you might be taking me for a little drive to the hills—I love motoring so much that there is no telling how gracious I might be —you stay in that terrible Casino, gambling— not even like a man who seeks the great things, one who deals in maximums in the Cercle Prive or at the Sporting Club, but playing for louis in the 'kitchen.' Bah! It is incredible! Why do you do it? I demand an explanation!"

Mr. Billingham's attention had wandered away. His eyes were fixed upon the little crowd entering the Casino. For once in his life he was almost indifferent to his charming companion.

"I guess I'll go and play a coup or two before luncheon," he announced, rising to his feet. "Don't wait for me if I'm late. Henry will see that you are well served."

He rose to his feet. Madelon made one last attempt to understand.

"Is it possible," she demanded, "that you have embarked upon another adventure without our aid?"

"If I do not return for luncheon," was the evasive reply, "I will tell you everything at dinnertime."

He crossed the Place—a trifle burly in appearance, but walking with the spring of a young man; erect, self-confident. A commissionaire saluted him, the cloak-room attendant recognised him as a generous donor of pourboires, the ushers at the door bowed at his coming. He staked a coup or two at the table on the right. Then he turned to the table on the left. Every place was occupied and there was a row of people standing looking on. Mr. Billingham took his place amongst them. This time he staked nothing, however. He stood behind the chair of a slim, elderly man, who wore dark tortoise shell spectacles and who had just taken a vacant place. By his side sat Anna, the woman who had betrayed her lover.

"Faites vos jeux, messieurs," the croupier invited.

The man in front of Mr. Billingham threw four louis on the table.

"Sept, quatorze, vingt-huit—vingt-neuf, vingtneuf en plein," he said.

Mr. Billingham glanced meaningly towards a tall, dark man who had moved stealthily to his side. A quick nod was exchanged. Then a singular thing happened. Mr. Billingham, whose arms were almost as powerful as the arms of a prize-fighter, suddenly gripped both wrists of the man seated in front of him and held them together as though in a vise. The tall, dark man leaned over and touched him on the shoulder.

"In the name of the police, Monsieur," he whispered.

The woman looked round, recognised Mr. Billingham and shrieked. The man turned towards her. His teeth were suddenly parted. He seemed about to rise, making no movement of resistance.

The woman thrust her hand into her handbag, her fingers towards his mouth. His teeth closed with a snap. Then he rose calmly to his feet.

"If you have a car or anything," he said, "you had better get me into it. A person of brains, Mr. Billingham. I congratulate you."

Mr. Billingham's grip upon the man's wrists was never for a moment relaxed. Play had ceased and people were crowding up only to be kept away by two plain-clothes gendarmes who had suddenly made their appearance, and a small army of the Casino functionaries.

"The gentleman is taken ill," some one announced. "Make way, please."

The handcuffs clicked upon the man's wrists but he only shrugged his shoulders. He commenced his passage towards the door with Mr. Billingham on one side and the man who had arrested him on the other. His steps, however, became uncertain. He turned and looked back at the woman. She was standing, a terrible figure of misery, a few yards off. He forced a little smile into his face.

"Don't take her money away, Billingham, even if she fooled you," he begged. "You've come out on top, you see."

"What's wrong with you?" his captor demanded suspiciously.

"Cyanide of potassium," was the grim reply. "Anna had it ready for me in case we didn't make a get-away. You'll have to carry me down the steps. What about it, Billingham? If she fooled you, it was life or death for me."

"That's all right," Mr. Billingham promised. "I've nothing against her. I guess she can keep what she's got."

Madelon and her uncle had finished their hors d'oeuvres and commenced the grilled chicken when Mr. Billingham joined them. He took the vacant place opposite Madelon and signified his pressing need of some alcoholic refreshment. He was looking very grave and he had lost a good deal of his healthy colour.

"Something has happened!" Madelon exclaimed.

"We have just arrested Braund," Mr. Billingham confided. "Touch and go it was, too. They were off this afternoon."

"Arrested Braund?" Madelon repeated incredulously. "Why, you arrested him ten days ago! The papers said they were taking him back to America to- morrow."

Mr. Billingham was slowly recovering himself. He was still, however, very grave.

"I haven't let you two in on this," he explained, "because there was nothing you could do. I had to play, as it were, a lone hand. When I promised Ned Gunby I'd see this thing through, he gave me a little pile of papers about Braund and a note of a few of his weaknesses. He didn't tell me much about the woman, though, and I honestly believed that she was on the straight when she offered to sell me Braund for half the reward."

"But the man you arrested at the Boston Hotel"

"Braund's brother-in-law," Mr. Billingham interrupted—"the decoy whilst Braund made a getaway. He didn't run any particular risk. There were dozens to identify him the moment he was hauled up in New York. I thought it was all right until I had the handcuffs on him. Then I saw that he wasn't anything like the description of the man I wanted, and besides he put up no sort of a fight. I pretended to be fooled all right, and we've kept him in prison. In the meantime we've watched Madame. She's been damned artful, pretended to be playing the restaurant game at the Carlton and those places, but she was continually disappearing. Then I got her dossier. She was Braund's wife right enough, but wherever he was hiding in Monte Carlo she never went near him. I noticed, though, that she spent a lot of time at the Casino, and amongst Gunby's papers was a little note that the passion of Braund's life was roulette, and that if anything could bring him out of his hiding it would be to gamble. He played on four numbers only—seven, fourteen, twenty-eight, and twenty-nine. I sort of hung around and waited for some one sitting near Madame who backed on those numbers. We very nearly brought it off yesterday morning, but this morning it was a cert. They entered almost at the same time, went to the same table, sat side by side. I gave 'em the office outside and pretty soon—well—seven, fourteen, twenty-eight and twenty-nine. I got him by the wrists so that he couldn't move whilst they took his gun away—got him from behind."

The Marquis looked longingly towards the Casino.

"And we missed it!" he murmured.

"I shouldn't have let you be there," Mr. Billingham assured him. "There's no knowing how those things are going to turn out till they're over. After all, in a way he tricked us."

"How?" Madelon asked.

"The woman again! A common-looking bit of goods but Braund was her man and she saw him through it. The moment they realised that he was done she handed him the poison—put it into his mouth herself, in fact. It was all over before they got him into the auto."

"Horrible!" Madelon exclaimed with a little shudder.

Mr. Billingham ordered his lunch.

"Horrible it is," he admitted, as he laid down the menu, "but there is just one thing that makes me glad of my morning's work."

"One thing?" the Marquis murmured politely. Mr. Billingham inclined his head towards the hill.

"That little hospital," he confided. "Poor Ned Gunby with a bullet in his chest, shot on sight for doing his duty. I guess Braund has got what was coming to him."

Nevertheless the shadow remained—the shadow of tragedy, which never leaves the atmosphere of sudden death. Mr. Billingham called for the winelist and revised his order.

"I should like our next adventure," Madelon confided, a few moments later, "to end in a laugh instead of a tragedy."

Something of the grimness passed from Mr. Billingham's face. He watched the pouring out of the wine.

"I guess I have an idea of that sort myself," he agreed. "Supposing——"</story>