<story title="MRS. BLOCK CONTRIBUTES" date="1925">
"That horrible woman!" Madelon exclaimed, gripping Mr. Billingham's arm, as they sat in a retired corner of the Sporting Club bar."

"She is indeed deplorable," the Marquis agreed, from the other side. "To- day, at one of the tables in the Casino, before the opening of the Cercle Prive, she created a scene. She plastered the board with plaques. She utterly failed to remember. She claimed everything. Her voice—a horrible memory! The croupiers had no choice. They gave in. She took what she wished. When she departed every one was overjoyed."

"She carries some of the stuff about her," Mr. Billingham observed judicially. "Fine woman in her day!"

The woman to whom they referred, Mrs. William Block, of Leeds, England, stood looking around for a seat, and, finding none, scowled. She was florid, fat, notwithstanding the desperate efforts of a world-famed costumier, and vulgar. She swung in her hand a gold bag, adorned with precious stones. She wore upon her person two pearl necklaces, a pair of large diamond ear-rings, a succession of diamond bracelets, and several glittering hat-pins. Her costume was white and bulgy. She was a well-known habitante of the Hotel de Paris, whose friends were sycophants and whose acquaintances fugitive, and she was reputed to be the widow of a leather merchant who had made a million pounds in hides.

"She is one of the people," Madelon confided, "who upset all my ideas of conventional morality. I should like to rob her."

The Marquis dropped his eyeglass and twirled the corner of his moustache.

"It is an idea," he admitted.

Mr. Billingham considered the matter.

"If one could hatch out a deal," he confessed, "I guess this is a case where one wouldn't need to be too darned particular. That woman don't deserve to be allowed to go about alive, looking the way she does, and with half a million dollars' worth of jewels missing their opportunity in life."

Madelon smiled up at him in intriguing fashion.

"Do something about it, Mr. Billingham," she begged. "You are already in favour with her. Do you not remember giving her your seat yesterday evening?"

"Say, that don't count for much," Mr. Billingham protested. "She was leaning over me with a kind of blend of lily of the valley and patchouli scent, pretty well stifling me, brushing my hair the wrong way, pushing her plaques on and shouting out her stakes till I was glad enough to make myself scarce."

"Nevertheless," Madelon reminded him in a whisper, "you gave her your place, and she is smiling at you now."

It was an incontrovertible fact. Madelon rose to her feet with a sudden graceful movement.

"I have an idea that there is a place for me at my favourite table," she confided. "I go to see."

Mrs. William Block advanced a few steps and beamed at Mr. Billingham. He rose at once.

"Vous desirez une chaise, madame?" he demanded.

"I'll sit down all right," the lady replied, dropping heavily into the chair, "but I ain't French. Waiter, I'll have a gin fizz."

"An excellent drink!" Mr. Billingham murmured.

"I like a glass of champagne most times," the lady confided, "but I'll have to drink so much for dinner that perhaps I'd better lay off for a while. I'm dining with the Higginsons—Jim Higginson and his wife. You know them, I dare say."

The Marquis felt himself included in the query.

"I have not the honour," he murmured.

"Can't say that I know them," Mr. Billingham confessed.

"Jim's father made his money in woollens at Huddersfield," the lady explained, "and Jim got into that cotton scheme somehow. . . . Why," she went on, smiling at Mr. Billingham, "you must be the gentleman who gave me his seat yesterday evening."

"I had that pleasure," Mr. Billingham admitted.

The Marquis rose stealthily to his feet. He was fond of his friend, he was very fond of his niece, but like all real aristocrats he was in his way a snob. He did not care to sit next Mrs. William Block.

"I wait for you," he explained, with a wave of his hand. "I have an affair." . . .

"Jumpy little person, your friend," Mrs. Block remarked. "Never mind! All the more room for us. Where are you staying, Mr.—Mr.—what is your name?"

Mr. Billingham produced a card.

"My name is Billingham, ma'am," he said— "Samuel T. Billingham of New York. I was interested in linoleums but I've sold out."

"Retired, eh?" the lady remarked.

"That's how you put it over here," Mr. Billingham conceded cautiously. "I'm not saying that I'm right out of the game yet."

"My name's Block," the lady confided— "Annie Block. My husband was in hides. Nasty dirty things, I always thought, but he made a cool million at it."

"Pounds?" Mr. Billingham enquired, in an awed tone.

"Pounds sterling," was the definite reply. "None of your silly dollars!"

"I trust," Mr. Billingham continued, "that your husband remembered to whose inspiration his success was due?"

"I don't know what you're getting at," Mrs. Block observed, "but if you want to know what he did with his money, I'll tell you straight, he left it to me. It will cost you one bob at Somerset House to find out that I ain't a liar, and if you happen to know a word or two of French, just rub it into that flunkey there that a lady doesn't want to wait for a gin fizz half the evening."

Mr. Billingham proved equal to the occasion.

The gin fizz was produced, and the lady, notwithstanding her colossal inheritance, showed not the slightest objection to her companion paying for it. They conversed for a time with growing intimacy.

"Are you married?" she asked, a little abruptly.

Mr. Billingham scorned the suggestion.

"Put it off till too late, I guess—a great mistake!"

She sighed, and scrutinised him benignly.

"What do you mean by 'too late'?" she demanded. "You're in the prime of life."

Mr. Billingham shook his head gloomily.

"I am healthy," he admitted. "I'm only just round the corner of fifty, but I guess I'm still a little particular. The women I care for seem to want something younger."

"Rubbish!" the lady asserted.

"Take your own case now," he went on earnestly. "You are a widow, I understand. You are bound to marry again—any one can see that. You wouldn't care to have anything to do with a man of my age."

Mrs. William Block laid four chubby fingers and a fat thumb upon his arm. So far as her double chin would allow her, she looked arch.

"You are a funny person!" she declared. "Come on—I dare you! Ask me, now. I might be tempted."

Mr. Billingham bore the assault stoically.

"If I did make such an idiot of myself," he observed, "I know very well what would happen, and so do you."

"I'd have you," she assured him.

Mr. Billingham contemplated that wonderful array of jewellery with which she was decked, remembered his pledge to Madelon, heaved a deep sigh, and permitted himself to touch the massive arm which leaned against his.

"What are you doing for luncheon to-morrow?" he asked.

"That depends upon what you want me to do," was the brilliant reply.

At the end of a week Mr. Billingham had lost half a stone. He escaped one morning from the Hotel de Paris at an early hour and met his friends, the Marquis de Felan and Madelon, his niece, at one of the smaller cafés at the back of the town.

"Some one else," he complained, "will have to take a hand in this game."

The Marquis stroked his moustache.

"My turn, I gather," he observed, "is to come later."

"What can I do, dear man?" Madelon asked, patting his hand. "I am here. I am anxious to help. I must confess that at first I watched your sufferings with heartfelt sympathy. Lately I am not so sure. You are either getting callous, or you are becoming an admirer of the Gargantuan in my sex."

Mr. Billingham groaned.

"Listen," he announced; "we approach the end. I am veritably the accepted suitor of Mrs. Annie Block, widow of a defunct dealer in hides. The million is in her own name."

"It is incredible!" the Marquis declared.

"A million? It is worth the trouble?" Madelon murmured inscrutably.

Mr. Billingham smiled for the first time for days; a smile that spread and extended to the wrinkles around his eyes.

"Well," he continued, "I guess I'm about through with my part. It is your uncle who takes the floor now."

The Marquis coughed.

"But supposing the lady should object to this —er—substitution of attentions?"

Mr. Billingham's smile broadened.

"I should worry," he murmured. "Play your part as I have played mine, Marquis—and there must be no shirking, mind—and the thing is accomplished. This morning we meet at the Café de Paris and I shall present you. Then I talk to Madelon. The rest—well—some cinch, I can tell you!"

The Marquis was a little uneasy. He was haunted with visions of a magenta dress which the lady had worn on the previous evening.

"I am not sure," he ventured, "whether my methods may appeal."

Mr. Billingham struck the little table with his fist.

"See here," he announced, "it's a closed pocketbook on this trip if you show the white feather. The game's as easy as pie. You've got to sail right in. I come along with the finesse later. Madelon!" She nodded understandingly.

"Uncle," she warned him, "remember that everything depends upon your playing your part properly. You want to have something to take to the Casino to- morrow, don't you?"

The Marquis breathed a deep sigh. He seemed to be able to visualise the moment of suspense, the click of the ball falling into its niche, the croupier's monotonous announcement. He drew himself up.

"I am a man of honour," he declared. "I shall not fail you. Let us start at once. . . ."

Outside the Café de Paris, seated before the most conspicuous table, and looking larger than ever, they found the lady of whom they were in search. Mr. Billingham marched boldly up.

"Mrs. Block," he said, "my friend, the Marquis de Felan, has asked me to present him. The Marquis de Felan—Mrs. Block—also Miss de Felan, the Marquis' niece."

Mrs. Block was fluttered but gratified. The Marquis rose splendidly to the occasion. He kissed her pudgy fingers with an air which evoked her wondering admiration, and accepting a chair by her side he plunged at once into a conversation of a more or less intimate nature. He played the host to the little gathering, ordering refreshments and paying for them with an air of great liberality. After a time Mr. Billingham rose tentatively to his feet.

"I guess Miss de Felan and I are going to walk along and see about that table for dinner," he announced. "We'll find you here when we come back, or else meet in the Casino."

Mrs. Block smiled gracefully; the Marquis for a moment felt his heart sink, but he stuck to his guns.

"A very delightful man, Mr. Billingham," the lady remarked, looking after his departing figure.

The Marquis nodded without enthusiasm.

"Why not?" he replied. "He has in the world all that he desires. He has money, and above all he has a facile disposition. It is a great thing, that! He makes friends easily. He never suffers from loneliness."

"And do you?" the lady asked softly.

The Marquis sighed. He looked dreamily away towards the hills. He was quite at his best.

"All my life," he confided, "I have been lonely. I lost my wife when I was young. I was foolish not to remarry. Now, alas! when it is too late, I feel the need of a companion."

"Why is it too late?" she enquired tenderly. "The women of to-day," the Marquis complained, "all prefer young men. Where should I find a woman attractive enough to be agreeable to me who would be willing to marry a man of fifty?"

"Very easily, I should think," Mrs. Block declared with portentous emphasis. "But of course if you want one of these young fly-away hussies

"But I do not," the Marquis interrupted. "I prefer a woman of—of experience. A woman," he went on, leaning a little towards her—"may I venture to say—of something like your age— thirty-eight or so."

It was a moment of ecstasy for Mrs. Block. She was wearing a gown in which she fondly believed that she resembled the mannequin from whom she had bought it. She was sitting alone with a Marquis and quite casually she had been taken for thirty-eight.

"How did you know my age?" she asked, almost archly.

"I am a great diviner of ages," he replied. "It is very seldom that I make a mistake."

"Well, then, I think there are very few women of my age, Marquis," the lady confided, "who would not be glad to try and bring a little sunshine into your life."

The Marquis sighed once more.

"A beautiful way of putting it 1" he murmured. "You cheer me up, dear lady. May I," he added significantly, "do myself the honour of calling upon you?"

Mrs. Block was more and more fluttered.

"Come this afternoon," she invited. "I have tea in my sitting-room at four o'clock. Mr. Billingham sometimes drops in, but this afternoon I shall say that I am engaged."

"Mr. Billingham is a great friend of yours, is he not?" the Marquis enquired gloomily.

"Nothing special," was the indifferent reply. "We're friends in a way, of course, but he's not quite my fancy. By the by," she went on, "are you and your niece doing any tiling to-night?"

"Nothing of any consequence," the Marquis confessed.

"Come and dine at my hotel—the Hotel de Paris," the lady begged eagerly. "Mr. Billingham's coming, and to tell you the truth, I'd just as soon not dine with him alone. He is very nice, but people do talk so, and when you've made up your mind as I have—well, I don't want to seem to be encouraging him. You comprenez?"

"Parfaitement," the Marquis assured her with a little inward chuckle. "About half-past-eight, I suppose. Permit me to escort you across the Place. . . ."

The Marquis strolled down the terrace to Ciro's a little later with the remains of a smile still lurking about his lips. He handed his coat and cane to an attendant and crossed the room confidently towards the table where Madelon and Mr. Billingham were already seated.

"My friend," he announced, "you no longer exist. I have achieved a great success. La belle Block is no longer for you. I take tea with her in her salon this afternoon. You are to be told that she is engaged. We dine at the Hotel de Paris tonight—Madelon and I. A million pounds! It is incredible! One might be disposed to take this affair seriously."

Madelon shook her head.

"Impossible," she insisted. "You may eat her dinners and rob her if you will of that staggering jewellery, but more would not be possible." The Marquis shivered a little as he glanced down the menu.

"You are right," he assented. "Besides, even if one had the courage, there would be disagreeable people like executors. You might find that there were difficulties about the money and settlements."

"The man who marries a woman like that," Mr. Billingham declared firmly, "would deserve what he got, and I guess we'll leave that out of the question. She's one of the people in the world, though, the Lord meant to be robbed. She goes about asking for it."

"The scheme itself is as yet scarcely clear to me," the Marquis murmured.

"Nor to me," Mr. Billingham confessed, attacking his hors d'ceuvres vigorously. "The stuff's there all right, though, and we're going to touch it. Make the running as strong as you can this afternoon, my son. We'll get to work before the week's out."

The Marquis played with his eyeglass a little nervously.

"You will not suggest, of course, anything in the nature of—er—direct larceny?"

"Not I," Mr. Billingham acquiesced. "Jewel lifting's too difficult, and besides, we ain't professionals. Something a little more subtle. I haven't got it quite fixed yet, but I'm not worrying any."

The Marquis escaped from his afternoon tea entertainment, still triumphant but shattered. He drank a large whisky and soda at the bar of the Sporting Club before he felt sufficiently recovered to make his appearance in the Rooms. By dinnertime, however, he was entirely himself again. He sat at Mrs. Block's right hand, and endured stoically the pressure of her immense foot. The burden of conversation devolved mainly upon him, for Mr. Billingham was noticeably silent, and, for him, almost morose.

"Jealous!" his hostess whispered to the Marquis as they left the dining- room. "Jealous of you, dear!"

The Marquis felt his fingers lightly pressed and received a languishing glance.

"You have encouraged him," he rejoined.

"Not more than the others," she declared, airily and mendaciously peopling her environment with the forms of many suitors. "Men are so difficult nowadays," she sighed.

"A beautiful woman has always her embarrassments," the Marquis sympathised. . . .

The evening progressed according to plan. The little party had made their way to the Sporting Club, but Mr. Billingham, becoming more and more silent and depressed, presently withdrew. Madelon followed shortly afterwards and in a little voiture they drove to the Carlton. Mr. Billingham's depression had vanished as though by magic.

"Say, your uncle is getting away with this fine!" he declared. "It took me a week to get where he's got in less than a day. He's got the knack of it."

Madelon was looking up at the moon. Mr. Billingham was suddenly conscious that the night held a charm which was not altogether pagan. The sky was perfectly clear, the music from the cafés reached them faintly, in the dim light the crowds of moving people were like shadows.

"After all," she murmured, "it is rather terrible."

"I don't quite get you," her companion confessed.

"Having to live like this," she explained. "This living on one's wits. The insecurity of it is horrible. Sometimes it is amusing, it appeals to one's sense of humour, but it destroys one's dignity. In time we shall all three become really bad."

"Not you," Mr. Billingham rejoined softly. "Why not me?" she asked, turning abruptly and looking at him. "What do you suppose will be the end of me?"

"I guess you'll marry."

"Who would marry any one like me—who worth marrying?" she demanded, with a little note almost of passion in her tone. "Of course I want to marry—every girl does. I want a home of my own and a man to look after me. What sort of a husband do you think I am likely to find living this kind of a life?"

Mr. Billingham, too, was very serious.

"I guess it's hard on you," he admitted, taking her hand in his.

"It is hard on all of us, I suppose."

"Say, shall we lay off for a bit," he suggested. "I can make money on the Square. There's my old Company. They'd have me back as a Director."

She withdrew her fingers and patted his hand.

"You are very foolish," she said. "Of course you can make money. You are clever—but that would not help us. We would not live upon your charity. And yet, without you we should probably slip back into helplessness."

Mr. Billingham leaned towards her and coughed. His voice was a little husky.

"Madelon," he began.

She turned her head.

"Well?"

The carriage pulled up with a jerk outside the Carlton; the commissionaire threw open the door.

"Damn!" Mr. Billingham exclaimed. . . .

At supper-time Madelon became unexpectedly gay. She insisted upon dancing most of the time and resisted any attempt at serious conversation.

"Of course you know that you dance absurdly rell," she told him once. "You must be very fond of it."

"For a fat man," Mr. Billingham admitted, as he wiped his forehead, "I fancy I can move some. But dancing with you, Miss Madelon, is pretty easy going. Let's sit and talk for a bit now."

She shook her head.

"I could not," she objected. "To-night I am nervous. If I talk I shall weep. Go and fetch me that dancing instructor—the dark one. You will have to give him a hundred francs. I like that little side-step he does. You can either rest or try your fortune with the little danseuse."

Mr. Billingham obeyed orders so far as the dancing instructor was concerned, but made no effort towards securing the companionship of the little danseuse. Instead, he leaned back in his corner and watched. He seemed to be watching all the room, but as a matter of fact his eyes never left Madelon. She was very simply dressed, as usual, in a plain black georgette frock, but there seemed to be some new quality in her face—something a little haunting in her eyes, a dash almost of recklessness in her graceful movements. She danced like a devotee, without a word to her partner. Once her eyes met Mr. Billingham's and she smiled, but even her smile seemed to possess an indefinable and unrealisable quality. As soon as the dance had finished she thanked her partner briefly and returned abruptly to the table.

"I want to go, please," she begged. "We will see how Uncle is getting on."

Mr. Billingham paid his bill. They stepped outside and into a voiture. Mr. Billingham's voice was once more a little husky.

"Madelon," he began

She laid her hand for a moment on his.

"You must please not speak to me all the way back," she insisted. "And don't mind if I am a little foolish."

Her head disappeared between her hands. Once he saw her shoulders shiver as though she were sobbing. When they reached the Club, however, she sat up with a little weary smile. There were no signs of tears in her eyes.

"You see, after all I am not a finished adventuress," she said. "I am just a silly girl, who is liable to these sorts of moods. I think being with this horrible woman has affected me to-night. I hate ugly things and ugly people. If we continue our life of crime I insist upon it that our next victim is not of this type."

Mrs. Block was, for her, almost nervous when on the following afternoon, in response to an urgent telephone call, she received a visit from Mr. Billingham. Mr. Billingham seemed to have lost entirely that spirit of bonhomie which he generally presented to the world. Even his attire was more sombre than usual. He shook hands without a smile and declined a chair.

"Annie," he said, using her Christian name boldly, "I have come for an explanation."

"What sort of an explanation?" she enquired, toying with her rope of pearls.

"I guess you know," was the stern reply. "We Americans don't waste words. You know very well you're engaged to marry me and you're flirting with my friend. It's got to stop right now!" The situation had its embarrassments, but also its delights. Mrs. Block felt a thrill of joy as she once more invited her visitor to seat himself by her side. She had all the sensations of a heroine of some modern romance.

"Samuel," she said—"or rather, Mr. Billingham, because I am not going to call you Samuel any longer—you will have to be very generous. I wish to break off our engagement. It was never announced, as you know."

"Because of the Marquis?" he demanded.

Mrs. Block admitted the fact.

"It's no use wasting words about it," she went on. "I promised to marry him last night. We're keeping the engagement secret for a fortnight and then I'm going back to England to arrange my affairs."

"And what do you expect me to say?" Mr. Billingham asked.

"I expect you to be a dear and—give me up," she declared.

"I shall do nothing of the sort," he replied firmly.

"You can't hold me to that promise," she insisted. "There's nothing on paper, anyway. You wouldn't have me marry you without loving you, Samuel?"

Mr. Billingham flinched but persevered.

"You are engaged to marry me," he rejoined doggedly. "I may not be an aristocrat like the Marquis; I may not even be so well off, but you promised."

Mrs. Block shook her head.

"I can't help that," she said. "If you don't like it you can—do the other thing. That's all there is to say about it. I'd rather be friends."

Mr. Billingham remained unmoved.

"I am not to be got rid of like that. I shall appeal to the Marquis himself," he threatened.

"What do you mean?" she demanded.

"The Marquis is a man of honour," Mr. Billingham explained. "I shall go to him. I shall tell him the truth. I shall say 'Mrs. Block was engaged to me. I introduced you as my friend. As a man of honour I require you to withdraw.' I know my ... friend," Mr. Billingham continued. "He will do as I desire. He will leave Monte Carlo the same day."

Mrs. Block was pale with anger. Her visitor's words carried conviction. The phrase "a man of honour" daunted her. In her fancy she could already see the Marquis seated with folded arms in his little voiture, with his portmanteau on the seat in front, on his way to the station.

"You must do nothing of the sort," she insisted.

"What is to prevent me?" he retorted. "Besides"

"Besides what?" she interrupted eagerly.

Mr. Billingham was shamefaced but determined.

"I am poor," he confessed. "I am tired of being poor. I have lost heavily at the tables."

Mrs. Block came up to the scratch at once.

"For how much money," she asked, "will you leave me and the Marquis alone?"

"Two thousand pounds," Mr. Billingham replied without hesitation.

She was a little staggered, but she was a woman of action. She wrote out a cheque and handed it to him. He shook his head.

"It would take weeks to get the money for that," he pointed out.

"They will cash it downstairs," she assured him.

"You get the money and bring it in mille notes," he insisted. "That's all I ask. You can marry the Marquis as soon as you like then."

She motioned him to a chair.

"Wait," she ordered.

In a quarter-of-an-hour she returned, slightly breathless, with a great pile of mille notes in her hand.

"They had to send to the Bank," she explained. "There's your money. Now you just leave me and the Marquis alone."

Mr. Billingham picked up his hat sadly.

"You may be choosing the better man, Annie," he said, "but this is a great disappointment to me."

Mrs. Block sneered a little. She was not really fond of parting with her money.

"You've got something to console yourself with," she snapped out. "Hurry off, please. I am expecting the Marquis at any moment."

Thereafter the Marquis played his part manfully for a week. At the end of that time he made an abrupt appearance as Mr. Billingham and Madelon were finishing their dinner in a secluded corner of the Sporting Club Restaurant. He had all the appearance of a man on the verge of a nervous breakdown.

"My friend," he exclaimed, sinking into a chair which a waiter had brought from a neighbouring table, "order me a liqueur brandy. This must cease. I have reached the limit."

Mr. Billingham wisely ordered a double liqueur brandy hastily and forbore to question his friend.

"I have stood the amused ridicule of a crowd of strangers," the latter went on. "I have put up with the agony of being drenched with intolerable perfumes, of listening to that strident voice, of—"

"Cut it out!" Mr. Billingham interrupted. "What's the trouble?"

The Marquis looked around him wildly.

"The lady," he confided, "is becoming amorous. She has held my hand, she has pressed my feet, until the thing has become monotonous. Now she has, I fear—other designs upon me."

The creases around Mr. Billingham's eyes began to deepen, his mouth quivered, his efforts at self-control became useless. He joined in MadeIon's ecstatic outburst of amusement. When he had recovered sufficiently to wipe his eyes, the Marquis had drunk his brandy and was looking thoughtfully at the bottle.

"We dined," the Marquis explained, "at the Hotel de Paris. She insisted—declared that it was too quiet there and that she wanted me alone. She wore white satin,—not enough of it by yards. She wore jewellery which made the people blink when she came into the room. She sat next a party of your compatriots and she called me 'Marquis' at the top of her voice every few minutes. When at last I thought my hour of comparative release had arrived, she declared that she had a headache and would spend the evening in her sitting-room. She has ordered me to follow her. I am to return—to sit with her there alone! She has whispered in my ear that we are engaged."

Mr. Billingham made signs to the waiter, who filled the Marquis' glass.

"You've got to go through with it, Marquis," he declared.

"But what is to be the end?" the Marquis demanded, almost passionately. "People are beginning to smile when they see us together. Our engagement has even been announced in some of the papers. One day she will march me into a church or registry office and I shall emerge a married man. She is masterful—overwhelming! What is your plan? It is time to announce it."

Mr. Billingham reflected.

"There have been a few little pickings," he mused.

"It is true," the Marquis assented. "I have jewellery for the first time for many years; pearl studs like blobs, and some sapphire sleeve links and waistcoat buttons which are admirable. These things are so much to the good, but I cannot go on collecting them. There is a certain definiteness," he added, "in the woman's intentions towards me this evening, which is horrible."

Madelon, wiping the tears from her eyes, leaned forward.

"There must be a rescue party," she suggested. "I agree," Mr. Billingham assented. "In ten minutes your sufferings shall be at an end; temporarily, at any rate. I will find some excuse. We will break in upon you."

"With that promise and under those conditions," the Marquis said, "I will return. . . ."

The Marquis kept his word, and Mr. Billingham carried out his share of the bargain. In less than a quarter of an hour he presented himself at the sitting-room of Mrs. Block's gorgeous suite. He was immediately aware of tragical happenings. The Marquis, looking a little dazed, was standing upon the hearthrug. Mrs. Block, grasping a telegraphic despatch in her hand, was in a state almost of collapse upon the sofa. The newcomer looked from one to the other.

"I regret my inevitable intrusion," he began— "Monsieur le Duc, the Marquis' father, has telephoned from Nice."

Mrs. Block banged the end of the sofa with her fist.

"Damn you all—dukes and marquises and the lot of you!" she cried. "Tom will smash you when he comes, and he'll kill me. What a fool I've been!"

"Say, who is this 'Tom,' anyway?" Mr. Billingham demanded.

"My husband!" Mrs. Block declared dramatically.

"Her husband!" the Marquis murmured under his breath with a beatific smile.

Mrs. Block rose to her feet. She was, after all, a woman of force and determination.

"Look here, you two," she confessed, "this is the long and short of it. I'm no widow. My husband's hale and hearty, though he's sixty years old. I've been down here three years, and a lone woman doesn't get the show she ought to. She wants some one attached to her. I guess I lost my head a bit. I wanted a man along, and I chose the simplest way of getting one. Now it's got put in the papers about me and the Marquis, my old man's seen it, and he'll be here to- morrow morning at twelve-thirty. Years ago," she went on, with a livid little shadow of memory blanching her face, "he used to beat me. He'd think nothing of doing it again, and as to any man he's ever run up against—well, he's made short work of him. 'Fighting Tom,' they used to call him. . . . Don't stand there looking like nincompoops, both of you! What are you going to do?"

The Marquis duly interpreted a glance from Mr. Billingham.

"I shall consult with my friend," he said. "You have treated me very badly, madame."

"Following upon your treatment of me," Mr. Billingham added meaningly, "the situation becomes a grave one. With your permission, we will call upon you at half-past ten to-morrow morning."

"Let's have it out now," the lady begged.

Mr. Billingham shook his head.

"At half-past ten," he repeated. "Come along, Marquis!"

Mrs. Block had not the strength to argue. The two men took a dignified leave of her.

At half-past ten on the following morning a very altered Mrs. Block received her two visitors. She was wearing a plainly made gown, her pudgy face was devoid of its artificial colour, her eyebrows appeared to have lost their shape, and nothing but a cascade of jewellery remained of her previous magnificence. She scarcely waited for them to sit down.

"Well?" she demanded eagerly.

Mr. Billingham coughed.

"The Marquis desires to know your wishes, madame," Mr. Billingham announced stiffly.

"What I want him to do is to clear out," the lady declared. "If Tom's seen that bit in the paper about the Marquis and me—which he must have done as he's never left England before in his life—he'll hunt this place until he's found him, and then there'll be trouble. I shall tell him that the whole thing is a bit of newspaper stuff, that I don't know any Marquis, that I haven't any friends here at all."

"I gather that you desire the Marquis to leave Monte Carlo," Mr. Billingham observed.

"This morning," was the prompt assent. "I want him out of the way before Tom starts making enquiries."

"You will understand, I am sure," his friend continued, "that for a man fixed like the Marquis, with a whole heap of social engagements, this is some sacrifice."

"It is intolerable!" the Marquis interposed. "I shall lose my roulette, my rooms are taken for another month—I lose, also, more than I can express," he added, with a little bow.

"You can cut that out," was the blunt retort. "You may or you may not have been in earnest, but I'm not going to believe that you're going to break your heart. Will you go or won't you?"

"I prefer to remain," the Marquis announced coldly. "If your husband desires satisfaction I shall be at his service."

Mrs. Block laughed. It was not exactly a laugh of humour, but it was the first time her features had relaxed.

"Tom's idea of 'satisfaction' would be to knock you into a jelly," she confided—"and he'll do it, too."

"I await the arrival of monsieur," the Marquis repeated haughtily.

"Look here, madame," Mr. Billingham intervened, "I guess we're wasting time. The Marquis is like myself—a man of moderate means. After losing a small fortune, he's struck a vein of luck and he's winning every day at the tables here. His rooms are taken for another month and he'll have to pay for them. If you want him to quit for your convenience, you must talk business about it."

"O-ho!" the lady exclaimed. "So that's the game, is it? I'm beginning to wonder," she added suspiciously, "whether the Marquis isn't another of your kidney."

The Marquis picked up his hat and coat.

"The interview is at an end," he declared. "I find the attitude of madame outrageous."

Mrs. Block sprang up and barred his exit.

"Don't be silly," she enjoined. "Your friend knows what he's talking about. How much do you want to clear out of Monte Carlo before halfpast twelve, not show yourself here for at least a week, and deny you ever set eyes on me if Tom finds you out?"

"My friend will arrange such a matter," the Marquis replied icily. "I have no head for figures myself. These moves are very expensive."

"The Marquis will leave by the twelve o'clock train to Nice," Mr. Billingham promised, "for the sum of two thousand pounds."

Mrs. Block looked from one to the other of the two men. There were times when she was a very ugly woman, and this was one of them.

"I believe you two," she began, "are nothing more nor less--"

Mr. Billingham held out his hand with a warning gesture, and the woman, with an effort, held her tongue. The Marquis threw his card upon the table.

"Present this with my compliments to your husband, madame," he begged. "I shall remain in this afternoon."

The woman leaned over the table, tore up the card savagely, and threw the fragments into the fire. Then she crossed the room, unlocked a drawer and produced a thick wad of mille notes. She counted them out in piles of tens. At a hundred thousand she paused. Mr. Billingham shook his head.

"The exchange to-day," he reminded her dryly. . . .

She flung down another four packets. The Marquis picked them up with well- assumed nonchalance. His fingers trembled a little, however, as he thrust the entire roll into his breast coat pocket.

"I've been a damned fool," the woman confessed, "and I suppose I've got to pay for it."

"Fools always pay," Mr. Billingham murmured, as he picked up his hat and cane. "We have the honour, madame!"

"The deep regret!" the Marquis echoed.

"Go to blazes!" was the lady's valedictory remark."

"Madelon and Mr. Billingham that night, being in a festive mood, dined at the Hotel de Paris. They were still considering the matter of hors d'ceuvres when a maître d'hôtel ushered in some late arrivals. Mr. Billingham glanced up casually, but his eyes remained transfixed. Madelon slightly turned her head. Mrs. Block, in one of her most gorgeous frocks, was sailing through the room. Behind her was a small, ill-made man of about five feet seven, with sandy hair, unpleasant complexion, bushy eyebrows, narrow, suspicious eyes, and a very acquisitive mouth. He was badly dressed and he had the clumsy presence and the assertive manners of a stranger to such places. The maître d'hôtel, who had been talking to Madelon, smiled.

"It is the husband of the wealthy lady from Leeds in England," he confided. "He arrived this morning."

"Fighting Tom!" Mr. Billingham gasped.</story>