<story title="THE SALVATION OF MR. NORTON" date="1925">
Even the serious business of losing money gracefully was suspended for a moment or two when Validia, followed by her latest cavalier, emerged from the baccarat room and leaned over the roulette table. All heads were turned. There was a little whisper of half reluctant admiration. Validia had been the acknowledged beauty of Monte Carlo for several weeks.

"Give me a mille or two," she demanded, turning to her companion with a careless gesture. He produced a substantial-looking pocket-book, deliberately extracted two mille notes and gave them to her. She passed them a little contemptuously to the croupier.

"Maximum au zero et les chevaux" she directed. "La monnaie en plaques."

The ball was spun. One of tho numbers at the lower end of the table turned up. Validia swept the remaining plaques into her bag and turned away.

"I do not know why I play this game!" she exclaimed angrily. "I always lose. Let us try the other table."

Her cavalier followed her; silent, with an obedience which was a little dog- like and British. Validia walked slowly and there was no one who did not notice her coming and her passing. She was beautiful in the type which pleased most at the moment, with oval face, ivory-tinted complexion and black hair, smooth and glossy, brushed back and ending in almost a chignon. She wore a dress of white silk, with many flounces and with just a suggestion of the crinoline. Her only jewellery was a rope of wonderful pearls. Her total avoidance of all cosmetics, in a season during which even school-girls aimed at making their lips look like lines of scarlet, was in itself an aid to distinction. She walked alluringly. Her dark brown eyes, a little narrow, it is true, but very wonderful, held in them a light which many a man had known to his cost. Her lips were so provocative, at times so inviting, that one failed to notice their wickedness. She had come to Monte Carlo two seasons before in the Russian Ballet, unknown and without particular genius. She had abandoned dancing now and her jewels and toilettes were each month more gorgeous. She had given colour to a report and liked it to be understood that she was secretly married to a somewhat disreputable but wealthy member of a Royal House. She spoke of her secret in the strictest confidence to everyone. It eased somewhat the strain of a position which she herself once naively remarked "might be open to misconception."

She approached the farther of the three roulette tables and once more extended her hand to her companion, this time without looking at him. It was a very beautiful hand, with long fingers and exquisitely manicured nails. There was an emerald ring on one of the fingers which was reputed to have belonged to Catherine of Russia.

"A mille," she said.

The man by her side—very English, a little pompous, distinctly middle-class—hesitated.

"You have those plaques," he reminded her.

She turned her head ever so slightly and his fingers went shivering for his pocket-book. He handed her the note which she took without a word of thanks. Again she staked and again she lost. She thrust the plaques which came to her as change into her bag. Then she turned towards the door.

"I think I will drink something," she decided. "You shall take me to the bar, mon ami. That man Kretterson is a pig to-night. He will not give up the bank for an hour."

"Why do you like so much to gamble?" he asked. "Why must it be baccarat? They tell me there is no game where you can lose so much." She laughed quietly and tapped his hand with her little ivory fan.

"I do not often lose," she said.

Madelon, seated with Mr. Billingham in a remote corner of the bar, leaned over suddenly and laid her hand upon his arm.

"My friend," she exclaimed, "I will tell you what it is which makes this place seem so satisfying to us—which makes us loath to leave. Underneath all its tinsel and theatricality there is real life to be seen here—human everyday life."

"I guess we've seen a few strange things this season," Mr. Billingham acquiesced.

"I do not mean the obvious tragedies," MadeIon continued. "I do not mean the suicides, the murders, the naked passions. I mean something nearer to our hearts. I will give you an example. . . . You saw the two who just came in?"

"Sure," Mr. Billingham assented. "The woman Validia—the Russian woman—and the pompous English Johnny who follows her like a shadow."

"Now I want you to look at some one else," Madelon went on, dropping her voice a little. "Do you see that middle-aged, badly-dressed woman who has just changed her seat?"

Mr. Billingham nodded.

"Female hayseed type," he observed. "Looks as though she had been dug up from the back woods and dressed in last year's styles from the department store."

Madelon smiled.

"You are really a very observant person," she murmured. "You see her. She is a study in herself. She was probably considered pretty when she was young. She lived in a small town and her father was perhaps a prosperous but unambitious manufacturer. She has gone comfortably through life and her chief troubles have been her domestic servants and the high price of provisions. Just now she has something else in her face. Can you see it?"

"She looks kinder scared," Mr. Billingham suggested.

"She is living in the shadow of a new and terrible fear," Madelon declared. "Something haa happened to her of which she has never dreamed. She has jogged comfortably on through life and now suddenly there is a precipice at her feet. She is the wife of the man who is talking to Validia. He has left her alone all the evening. She has just changed her place so as to be out of sight. Look at her sitting there with her hands in her lap and her eyes staring through the wall. She is too rustic even to hide her sorrow."

"Who put you wise to all this?" Mr. Billingham demanded curiously.

"I talked to her yesterday afternoon," Madelon explained. "I could not help it. She looked so lonely. Do you mind if I go and talk to her again now?"

"Why, of course not," Mr. Billingham acquiesced. "Come to look at her closely she does look as though she'd been put through it. I'll try a hand or two at trente et quarante" . . .

Madelon crossed the room and sat down by the woman's side.

"You are not gambling this evening," she remarked pleasantly.

"I do not play these games," the woman confessed, a little timidly. "I don't understand them. At home we play auction bridge sometimes, but I am not fond of cards."

"Where do you live?" Madelon enquired. "At Exeter, in Devonshire," the woman answered. "My husband is manager of the principal bank there."

"Manager?" Madelon repeated. "I thought he was a banker himself."

The woman shook her head.

"It is a big position," she said, "and my husband is very much esteemed in the city. When we married he was just a clerk in the bank with two hundred a year. He has just got on by being steady and industrious. He has a wonderful head for figures, too."

"This must be a great change for you after an English city," Madelon suggested.

The woman shivered. She was keeping her eyes carefully turned away from the further end of the room.

"It is a horrible place," she declared, with a strange little sob in her throat. "The first day I thought I should like it. The band was playing and the sun was shining and Henry and I took a little carriage and drove out to Cap Martin, and after dinner at the hotel we got our tickets for the Rooms, and I won thirty francs. I thought it was quite a wonderful place that first evening!"

"Tell me," Madelon asked—"that is if you do not think it an impertinent question—is your husband very rich?"

"We are very well off," was the complacent reply. "He gets eight hundred a year now and he has just had a legacy. That is why we are here. We have never been abroad and he had to take his holiday in February, so we came out here for three weeks. Cook's arranged it all for us. I thought that I was going to enjoy it so much and now it all seems terrible."

"You mean because of that woman?" Madelon said kindly.

"I do not know why I talk to you like this," the woman continued, with a note of desperation in her tone, "but there it is! Henry has gone mad. He will not let me speak to him at night. He doesn't sleep. I wake up and find him with his eyes open, muttering to himself. He spends more money every day than our whole hotel bill on flowers for her. If I speak to him he storms. And," she went on confidentially, "if any of the folks from around us were to get to hear of this—any of his big clients or the Bishop—we have all the ecclesiastical business—I can't think what would happen."

"Do you mind my asking you how much this legacy was?" Madelon ventured.

"Ten thousand pounds," the woman confided.

"Eight thousand when the duties were paid. We are going to invest it in house property in Exeter, and a little cottage down on the south coast for our summer holidays, but Henry thought he would like to take this trip first."

"How did your husband become acquainted with this woman?" Madelon enquired.

"I don't know," was the helpless reply. "He stood next her one evening whilst she was waiting for a seat at a chemm de fer table. If any one had told me," she continued, "that Henry Norton— the Henry I've been married to for twenty-two years—would behave as he is doing, like a stark, raving lunatic, all on account of a half-naked, shameless creature like that, I should have thought that they were crazy. Henry used to go on so at the young girls who wore short skirts in Exeter. He's a churchwarden and the Bishop calls him his right-hand man in the city. And now look at him! If any of the directors of the bank were to see him at this moment where should we be?"

"Men are very trying creatures," Madelon agreed soothingly. "Sometimes they break out like this, but it all passes. How long are you staying?"

"For another ten days. . . . How I shall live through them I don't know," Mrs. Norton added, with a little break in her voice. "For a week I have cried myself to sleep and I go and cry in the afternoons, and now I haven't any tears left. I have nothing but just misery. I try to keep away from here, but what can I do? I only fancy things. I sat in the hotel all last night, in the lounge, and read last week's papers. I sat there until one o'clock, and he hadn't come in. Then I went and walked out on the Terrace, where they say people sometimes commit suicide. I never thought of that before, but when one has such a pain"

Madelon patted her companion's fat hand for a moment.

"You must not be silly," she enjoined. "Listen. I shall try and help you. There are ways."

"Henry won't stand being interfered with," his wife sighed.

Madelon nodded understandingly.

"I can quite believe that," she said. "When an obstinate, rather narrow- minded man like your husband gets such an obsession he is hard to deal with. But there is always the woman. I shall go and talk to a friend of mine, who is very clever and very fond of helping people in trouble—what you call in English, I think, 'a good sort.'"...

Madelon departed with another little nod. On her way out she passed Validia and Mr. Norton, the bank manager from Exeter. Mr. Norton did not appear to be talking much; his attitude was simply one of dogged and deliberate concentration. Validia was gazing at herself in a little mirror. She was looking bored.

"Let us return, my friend, and watch the play," she suggested, putting away her vanity case. "If that hateful man is losing, perhaps he will give me the bank a little earlier. Would you like to be my partner this evening? . . . Well, we shall see!"

She rose to her feet. Her companion immediately followed her example.

"I do not understand the game," he said hesitatingly, "but if you wish it"

He followed at her heels; a little self-conscious, a little vain, only failing to be ridiculous because of his intense earnestness. As they crossed the passage, he leaned towards her.

"Must you gamble to-night?" he asked hoarsely.

"Couldn't we go out somewhere—have some supper—talk? I want to talk to you," he went on. "I see nothing of you with all these people. I waited until four o'clock this morning, and then you were too tired."

She laughed and looked at him with one of those sidelong glances which would have been a revelation to any one from Exeter.

"Some time," she whispered, "the caprice will seize me. I will take you by the arm. I shall whisper 'let us go.' Then you will be happy. Just along the passage there—it is not far. You will be glad then that you have waited."

He was a man of imperturbable ways, of stiff and portly demeanour, but little veins stood out upon his forehead and something rose in his throat. Before he could reply they were once more amongst the crowd.

Mr. Kretterson was winning that evening and showed no desire whatever to relinquish the bank. Validia became fretful and irritable. She was ready to welcome any diversion. She received the bow of the Marquis with marked graciousness. She knew all about him—that he was poor but distinguished. Nevertheless, his notice was always pleasant and he might well be the medium to other things.

"Madame has yet not had her chance at the baccarat table?" he enquired.

She made a little grimace.

"That man wearies me," she declared. "He wins and so he persists. After all, why not? I would do the same. The trouble is I desire to play and I do not like to wait for the things which I desire."

"Why not punt against him?" the Marquis suggested.

"It is a winning bank," she replied, "and besides I like the cards myself."

She smiled at him, thinking that although he, too, was elderly, he was indeed a man of great distinction; contrasting him for a moment in her mind with that dumb, stolid Englishman who stood patiently waiting for her notice. And the Marquis, looking at her perfect face, tracing the curve of her smile, appreciating the little glint of red in the liquid brown of her eyes, fancied himself back again in his younger days. She was indeed a very beautiful woman. Then he remembered his mission.

"I wish, madame," he said, "to ask a favour. I wish to present to you my friend Mr. Billingham from New York. Mr. Billingham is one of those giants who have lifted commerce and moneymaking into a place amongst the fine arts. He has been an admirer of yours for a long time."

No form of introduction could have been more apt. It gave madame great pleasure to make the acquaintance of Mr. Billingham. Her pleasure was enhanced when she found that he spoke quite tolerable French. The three talked together, whilst Mr. Henry Norton stood dumbly in the background. Presently, without a word of excuse to her late companion, Validia pointed to an empty seat and motioned Mr. Billingham to accompany her.

"You have left your friend," he remarked, accepting, however, her invitation.

"Ah, he wearies me!" she murmured. "You need have no fear. He has not a word of French. It wearies me, too, to speak his ugly language. You, Monsieur, speak French so well for an American. You have lived in this country?"

"Only as a pilgrim," was the regretful reply. "We Americans do our best to be patriotic but our law-makers do their best to push us over on this side if we want a little freedom."

"What sort of freedom do you want?" she asked softly.

Mr. Billingham's answering smile was noncommittal.

"Madame," he confessed, "the freedom I most desire at this moment is to talk to you very confidentially—if I might take the liberty on an acquaintance so short."

She leaned a little towards him.

"You intrigue me," she whispered. "What have you to say to me so confidential?"

"I should like to speak," Mr. Billingham confided, "of that fellow who shadows you everywhere."

She laughed; softly at first and then unrestrainedly, her head thrown back, both rows of her brilliant teeth exposed.

"Well," she demanded presently, "what of him?"

"In the first place," Mr. Billingham began, "do you know who he is?"

"A rich English banker," she replied. "He is dull, he is stupid, he is not even generous, except that he is 'fou de mot.' He wearies me. But what would you have? I make no pretence. I am Validia. Someone must pay that I may live." Mr. Billingham nodded approvingly.

"Madame," he said, "I admire your frankness. I will imitate it. Your friend is not what you suppose him. He is not a banker at all. He is the local manager in an English country town of a great banking firm at a salary which would not pay for your silk stockings and gloves in the year."

"What does he do here, then?" she asked incredulously.

"He has come into a legacy," Mr. Billingham explained, "and before investing it he has brought his wife here for a short holiday. They have never been abroad before. They have been married twenty-two years. They live in an English Cathedral city in a ten-roomed house with two maid servants. This is his long-talked-of holiday. Of the husband and his madness you know. The wife —she is plain, between forty-five and fifty, and your maid would not wear her dresses. You only need a glance at her to realise her position. She is face to face with a new and terrible sorrow in life."

"You are a very strange person," Validia observed. "Are you in earnest?"

"More or less," Mr. Billingham assented.

"I have deceived myself perhaps in this man's story," she admitted after a moment's reflection. "It is my imperfect knowledge of his language. Besides, he is so stupid that I thought he must be rich. How much is this legacy?"

"Less than eight thousand pounds," Mr. Billingham replied.

She yawned.

"It is a disappointment," she confessed. "I am glad that you told me. Still, if he cannot pay much for being foolish, he must pay little. Eight thousand pounds would cover my expenses here and perhaps he can borrow something."

Mr. Billingham sat for a moment in silence. She looked at him curiously. A few yards away Norton stood watching them, waiting for his opportunity to slip into the vacant place if its present occupant should take his departure.

"Is it worth your notice, a small thing like this?" Mr. Billingham asked.

She shrugged her shoulders slightly.

"Why not?" she replied. "If he has no more, then at least I should be rid of him when it was gone. You know who I am and what I am. They say of me, my friends here, that I have one quality. I am truthful. That is all. What I need of men who admire me is money. All that I have to give— and it is much—I will give to the man who can make me feel. That man will not be Mr. Henry Norton—but what would you have? I, even like the others, must live."

Mr. Billingham smiled enigmatically.

"If you were a man," he said, "I should like to do business with you. I like your way of putting the cards upon the table. I shall now show my admiration by following your example. I am one of the few men in the world who have begged for an introduction not to offer their homage, although I am not sure that at the present moment I do not consider you the most beautiful woman in the world."

"It is something," she remarked. "It is perhaps the truth. But I do not attract you, possibly?" She turned and looked at him—looked at him thoughtfully and with a comprehension which amazed him.

"It is true," she continued. "I do not attract you because you are another of these Saxons who possess the hateful gift of fidelity. You love another woman. Is it not so?"

"Perhaps," he admitted. "In the meanwhile the reason why I asked to be presented to you was to beg you to open the door of that golden cage of yours and let this last captive escape."

She eyed him speculatively.

"He does not wish to escape," she declared. "And besides, why should I do as you ask? What are you offering me? Not even your homage, as you yourself have admitted."

Mr. Billingham was a brave man, but even he was conscious of the peril of the moment. Nevertheless, he braced himself.

"Madame," he confessed, "I have perhaps nothing to offer you. On the other hand there is something, some negative consideration, which I think you might find adequate."

"You talk strangely, Monsieur," she observed. "It is a difficult subject."

"You need not fear to be frank with me," she told him.

"Let it be so, then. If you do not grant my request I do not think that your nightly games at baccarat will continue."

Whatever she might have been expecting it was not this. Her face showed no surprise nor any anger. She simply seemed suddenly to have become removed into another world. She had become entirely and absolutely aloof.

"I do not understand you," she said presently. "At baccarat I win because I have an instinct for the game. There have been many who have protested to the management against a woman being allowed to take the bank. Yet, you see, I continue! You cannot disturb me!"

"I shall certainly try," he warned her.

She laughed scornfully.

"A challenge!" she exclaimed. "Very well, I accept it! . . . Come here, my good friend, Mr. Norton," she went on in English. "Why do you stand apart? You must meet this gentleman— Mr. Billingham from New York, I think he calls himself. He imagines that to-night I am not to win at baccarat. We shall see! Would you like to take a bank with me?"

"I am not sure that I have enough money with me," was the somewhat hesitating reply. She frowned and tapped upon the floor impatiently with her foot.

"Of course I will do whatever you wish me to do," he went on hastily. "You know that I do not understand the game."

"They will cash your cheque here," she said. "Get me twenty milles and have more in your pocket. We will see whether we can win. And do not leave me again. I find these others wearisome." She bade Mr. Billingham a mocking farewell and departed, the man at her side obviously a little bewildered by her sudden graciousness. The Marquis strolled up.

"Any luck?" he enquired.

Mr. Billingham shook his head.

"Not yet," he replied. "We have exchanged long distance shots. I hoped for terms, but she prefers a fight."

"But I do not see, my friend, what you can do," the Marquis protested.

"I have an idea," Mr. Billingham confided.

"When I have an idea of this sort it is not often a mistaken one. I have watched this game for several evenings. We shall see!"

Perhaps because of her beauty and evil reputation, or it may have been from the magnitude of the stakes, or even that the sight of a woman taking a bank at baccarat was in itself an infrequent spectacle, the usual little crowd gathered round the table when Validia took the place which her predecessor had vacated. The first few coups were not productive of any great interest. The bank lost a little and gained a little. Validia sat with the face of a sphinx, drawing her card, announcing her coup with the air of an automaton. Presently, however, the game increased in volume. A wealthy South American, once successfully and once unsuccessfully, had called "banquo." Suddenly there was a little stir. Mr. Kretterson had strolled up and taken the place which had been reserved for him. Every one leaned forward—the gambling was about to begin! He addressed a whispered question to the croupier as to the size of the bank, nodded, and produced a huge packet of bills.

"Fifty milles," he declared.

There was a little hush. Mr. Billingham was amongst the crowd wedged behind his chair and looking over his shoulder. By his side was a young man—one of the celebrities of the rooms—who out of deference had been allowed a place almost to himself, but of whom Mr. Billingham, perhaps because of his democratic principles, had never once lost sight. Kretterson picked up his cards. He had a king and a queen. He asked for a card, and glanced at it carelessly. It was a nine. Validia toyed with her own cards for a moment, then almost for the* first time she raised her head. At the same moment Mr. Billingham leaned forward. Their eyes met. Palpably she hesitated. Mr. Billingham was looking directly at her with his usual goodhumoured and friendly smile hovering at the corners of his lips. Apparently, so far as he, at any rate, was concerned, no interchange of glances could have been more harmless or have lacked more completely any ulterior significance. Yet when Validia looked away her fingers were trembling. She glanced at her cards uncertainly and laid them down. She had a king and a six. The croupier began to deal out the winnings.

"What on earth did Validia hesitate for?" some one whispered, behind Mr. Billingham. "She couldn't possibly draw with six, having given the nine."

"Lost her head for a moment, perhaps," some one else commented. "She does make the most extraordinary draws sometimes. Hullo, she's going to quit!"

Validia had risen to her feet with a little gesture of excuse. The croupier announced that Madame was indisposed, and Mr. Kretterson, in response to a universal but unspoken invitation, took the bank. As she passed out, she touched Mr. Billingham on the arm. He followed her to a remote seat in a corner of the bar.

"Order me some brandy," she begged.

Mr. Billingham obeyed in silence. Incidentally he ordered a whisky and soda for himself. In a moment or two Validia spoke.

"How did you know?" she asked, in a low tone.

Mr. Billingham shrugged his shoulders.

"I suppose because I am myself an adventurer," he replied. "I go about the world in search of strange happenings, and I am always watching for them. As a matter of fact there is no game of cards at which I cannot perform miracles myself. I dare not play poker, even with my enemies."

"Still I do not understand," she murmured.

"Simple enough," he continued. "I've watched you take your bank from the background, and once or twice I've stood behind your chair. You are a woman of intelligence. Often I have seen you draw when no woman who knew the game would dream of it. That set me thinking. I looked round the table. There was one person always interested who seldom played; who seemed to prefer to move about and watch the drawer of cards. That person was perhaps the one human being in these rooms whom people would be least likely to suspect of malpractice. A few nights ago I saw! I gave you a warning when I was first introduced to you. You would not take it."

"I never dreamed," she murmured, "that you suspected. I thought you meant that you would complain to the management about a woman taking the bank. Others have done it. They hate women bankers."

"To-night," Mr. Billingham went on, "I stood by the side of your—shall I call him, accomplice? You dared not even look for the sign. It would have been a forlorn hope, in any case, to have drawn to a six, but I think that you would have tried it if I had not stood there."

"Tell me what you propose to do," she begged.

"You will return to that poor fool Norton the twenty milles and all that you have borrowed from him," Mr. Billingham pronounced. "You will simply wash him out completely, and so far as I am concerned the matter passes from my memory."

"You will keep your own counsel?" she asked eagerly.

"Absolutely," he promised. "I am no philanthropist. I am not in the world to protect fools. If you are clever enough to bring this off I am not one of those who would interfere."

She looked at him steadfastly.

"If you were Norton," she said, "I would not let you go."

Mr. Billingham smiled.

"Alas," he sighed, "there is that other reason you were clever enough to divine. Now go and say your farewell to this pseudo-banker of yours. But first—have you any heart at all, I wonder?"

"Not for man or woman," she answered, a little wearily.

"Yet for one moment look across the room," he begged. "There is a plain, middle-aged woman seated there by herself. You see her?"

"I see her," Validia assented. "She is Norton's wife."

Mr. Billingham nodded.

"She is wearing the wrong sort of clothes," he continued, "and she knows it. She is looking plain and commonplace—and she knows it. Somehow or other the truth has come to her; in here, or in the quiet times of the night, when she hasn't been able to sleep. She is suddenly frightened. Everything that meant life to her has gone. She is sitting there because she hasn't the courage to cross through the rooms—sitting there like some creature in pain. You can see all that in her face if you care to look—that commonplace face; eloquent now, perhaps, for the first time since possibly the day of her marriage, or the day her first child was born."

Validia looked across the room incuriously. Her eyes were as hard as ever; her expression unchanged.

"Yes," she said, "I see what you are trying to explain. That means nothing to me, however. I do not understand people who take account of the sufferings of others."

Mr. Billingham was silent for a moment. Then he rose to his feet. She followed suit.

"I will go and keep my bargain," she promised. "On the whole you are an interesting enemy. It is a pity that you are on the other side," she added, with that queer little smile upon her lips which had turned the heads of many men and which two seasons ago had induced the critics to christen her portrait in the Salon a modern "Mona Lisa." ...

Mr. Billingham left her at the door and went in search of Madelon. She made a little grimace as she led him back to the bar.

"Here have I been dying for an orangeade," she exclaimed, "and you sitting there with Validia, to the scandal of everybody. Your confessions, if you please!"

He drew her abruptly on one side. Norton, with unseeing eyes and uncertain footsteps, had entered the bar. All the prim stiffness of his deportment, his somewhat awkward self-assertiveness, had gone. He was like a man suddenly made natural by a catastrophe; a little frightened, cowed, stricken into common-sense. He crossed towards the bar, stood there gripping the rail with one hand, called for a drink and finished it at a gulp. His wife leaned forward from her place.

"Henry!" she called out.

He turned and looked at her, almost without recognition. Nevertheless, he made his way to her side. Mr. Billingham whispered in Madelon's ear. Together they approached. Madelon took command of the situation.

"Still not playing?" she said pleasantly to Mrs. Norton. "Let me introduce my friend, Mr. Billingham. This is your husband, is it not?"

Mr. Billingham seemed suddenly possessed by one of those extraordinary fits of geniality which overwhelm any situation. Mrs. Norton's confused surprise and Mr. Norton's stupor were scarcely noticeable.

"Very glad to meet you both, I'm sure," Mr. Billingham declared. "Why, there's the Marquis!" he went on, as the latter looked tentatively in.

"Come right along," he invited. "Let me present you—the Marquis de Felan—Mr. and Mrs. Norton. Sit down and join us, Marquis. Waiter! A bottle of Clicquot 1911—Dry England, mind, not the Brut—some biscuits, and five glasses! You will join us in a glass of wine, Mr. Norton?"

"I thank you very much," was the colourless reply.

"Tell me, you came from Exeter—a banker there," Mr. Billingham continued, producing his cigar-case. "Any connection with the British General Bank?"

"I am the manager of the Exeter Branch, sir," Mr. Norton confided, with a faint return to his old assurance of manner.

"My, is that so?" Mr. Billingham exclaimed. "One of the finest banks going! I congratulate you, sir. Perhaps you know a friend of mine down there—Lord Herrington."

"Lord Herrington is one of my most valued clients," Mr. Norton declared.

"Say, if this isn't a small world!" Mr. Billingham observed, watching the wine being poured out. "That's why I like this place. We men who watch the run of things can come along and rub shoulders with all sorts and be none the worse for it. and then meet our own sort and get all the pleasure imaginable. Say, Mr. Norton, sir, I'm very glad to have met you. Lord Herrington has asked me to stay with him often. We've been associated in more than one financial enterprise on the other side. I guess I may come and look you up at Exeter. Mrs. Norton, your very good health!"

By degrees the situation seemed to become almost normal. Mr. Norton talked about the banking business with increased eloquence, whilst his wife confided to Madelon in an undertone the extraordinary difficulties presented by the servant problem in Exeter. Mr. Billingham glanced at his watch.

"I've had all the gambling I want to-night," he declared. "Let's have a change. There's a Gala Supper at the Carlton. Let's all go. I told them I'd most likely want a table. What do you say, Mrs. Norton? I don't look the figure for it, perhaps, but I'm a useful man at a fox-trot. You dance, of course?"

"We had lessons," Mrs. Norton admitted, looking doubtfully at her husband.

"Anyway, we can watch the fun," her prospective host continued. "Come along, all of you. We'll get an automobile outside. There are one or two questions about banking matters over on your side," he went on, slipping his arm through Mr. Norton's, "I've wanted to ask a man of your experience."

At three o'clock on the following morning, Madelon and Mr. Billingham watched their guests step into a voiture outside the Carlton. Mr. Norton handed his wife in amidst a general exchange of good-humoured farewells, and was most impressive in his insistence that no one should forget their luncheon engagement with him on the morrow. He drew the rug over his wife and leaned back by her side, waving his hand with something of his old complacence. Suddenly Mr. Billingham felt Madelon's fingers grasping his arm.

"You are the dearest person in the world," she whispered. "Not only that, but you are the greatest diplomatist. Did you know that he was holding his wife's hand? And did you see him smile at her at the table? If ever a man was trying to assure her that he was sorry and that he had to be forgiven, he was doing it. And her face—why, she was almost good-looking!"

Mr. Billingham watched the approach of the voiture which he had summoned.

"I guess that little affair's fixed up all right," he conceded. ... "I wonder—"

Suddenly he was silent; thoughtful, almost depressed. Her fingers lingered in his as he handed her into the carriage.

"Sometimes," she whispered—"I wonder too!"</story>