<story title="THE SYMBOL IN THE BOOT" date="1925">
Mr. Billingham, attracted always by the unusual, paused in his early morning stroll through the clean streets, the flower-bedecked squares and along the glorious Terrace of Monte Carlo, to regard with some surprise the extraordinary spectacle of a man seated before one of the tables outside the Café de Paris fast asleep. The place was almost deserted, save for the sprinkling of visitors who came to take their early morning dejeuners in the sunshine, and Ben Hassim, the swarthy vendor of carpets, who stood patiently in the background, taking apparently no interest whatever in his immediate surroundings, yet with a curious air of watchfulness in his attitude and shining out of his black eyes. The young man who had attracted Mr. Billingham's attention was seated at one of the tables a little removed from the others and was sleeping peacefully and apparently naturally. It was obvious to an habitué of the place, however, that so unusual a proceeding would before long evoke interference from the authorities. A waiter had already called the attention of a maître d'hôtel to his presence; a gendarme from the Square had halted in his promenade and seemed to be contemplating action. Mr. Billingham approached, leaned over the sleeping man, sniffed the air for a moment and became immediately interested. He summoned the maître d'hôtel.

"How long has he been here?" he enquired, indicating the recumbent figure.

"Since the place was opened, Monsieur," the man replied. "It seems probable that he spent a great portion of the night here. It is time he moved on."

Mr. Billingham produced a twenty-franc note.

"Will you let him remain for ten minutes longer?" he begged. "I shall return by then. I am going to the chemist's. The young man is suffering from the effects of some drug."

The twenty-franc note resulted in the usual miracle, and on Mr. Billingham's return, in less than the time he had stated, he found the object of his solicitude still asleep. He poured a little powder into a wineglassful of soda-water and took the young man firmly by the arm.

"You must wake up," he said.

At the second injunction the sleeper opened his eyes and stared around him in a dazed fashion. Mr. Billingham thrust the wineglass into his fingers.

"Drink this," he ordered.

The young man obeyed. Then he blinked several times, stared around him again, and finally looked hard at Mr. Billingham.

"How did I get here, and who are you?" he demanded.

"How you got here is the question we've all been asking," Mr. Billingham replied. "As for me, I'm just an American visitor, staying at the hotel yonder. My name is Billingham."

The young man shook himself. He was a sunburnt, good-looking fellow and had a soldierly air notwithstanding his crumpled clothes, somewhat dishevelled appearance, and the fact, disclosed by the shape of his boots, that one leg was a little longer than the other.

"Well," he declared, "they got me first time. Drugged and robbed, I suppose."

He opened his coat and drew out a pocket-book. A considerable number of mille notes were there, some visiting-cards, and an odd letter or two.

"They've left you some money, at any rate," Mr. Billingham observed.

The young man returned the case to his pocket.

"Yes," he assented. "They haven't touched that. They've taken the packet, though."

He pressed his disabled foot on to the ground for a moment, and leaned once more back in his chair.

"Anything valuable?" Mr. Billingham asked. "Do you want to get in touch with the police? I'm rather close to the chief here."

The other shook his head.

"The packet," he confided, dropping his voice a little, "is not quite so valuable as the people who stole it imagine. All the same I think I had better be getting along. They'll be after me again as soon as they find out."

He rose to his feet a little unsteadily. There was still rather a drawn look about his face.

"Say, where are you staying?" Mr. Billingham enquired.

"Close by here—at the Robespierre."

"I'll walk down with you if you like," his rescuer suggested. "I'm just out to stroll about."

"It would be very kind of you," was the grateful acknowledgment. "To tell you the truth I'm still feeling a little giddy."

He picked up his rubber-tipped stick and leaned for a moment heavily upon it. Ben Hassim, the vendor of carpets, who had advanced slowly nearer and nearer, salaamed as he accosted them. His white teeth flashed and his smile was as irresistible as ever. Nevertheless, there was a gleam of anxiety in his dark eyes.

"Has the young gentleman been robbed of anything valuable?" he asked anxiously.

"Why should you think that he had?" Mr. Billingham rejoined.

Hassim patiently deposited one of the rugs, which was slipping from his shoulder, upon the back of a chair.

"Because it was I who brought him down here," he confided. "I found him up in Beausoleil. He was on a chair in front of a restaurant—not a good restaurant. I knew that if he stayed there it would be ill for him. I brought him here. I was waiting until he awoke."

The young man's hand went towards his pocket, but Hassim's arresting gesture was full of dignity. "I desire nothing," he said. "Only I wish to be assured that the gentleman has not been robbed."

The latter thrust the twenty-franc note back into his pocket.

"Curiously enough, I have not," he replied. "Something was taken from my pocket, but it was of no value to anybody. Anything I had with me," he added, looking intently at Hassim, "which is of value, I still possess."

Once more Hassim salaamed. He gathered up his rugs and retreated. They both looked after him curiously.

"That's a quaint fellow," the young man remarked.

"Got something at the back of his mind about you," Mr. Billingham mused, as they walked slowly off together. . . .

"My name is Powell—Leonard Powell," the young man volunteered, after a moment's silence. "I suppose you think that I've been making a night of it?"

"Kinder looks like it," his companion assented.

"Well, I haven't. I'm here on a special errand. I knew I was being watched and I went up to dine at the quietest place I know of—right at the back of the town here. I had half a bottle of wine and a liqueur brandy. The last thing I remember was paying my bill."

"Any ladies about?"

"Not a sign of one," was the emphatic reply.

"Sounds kind of interesting," Mr. Billingham observed, as they neared the hotel. "Sure you don't want me to get you in right with the police?"

The young man shook his head.

"The police couldn't help me," he confided. "If you'd like to come in and have your morning coffee with me, I'll tell you just the little more there is to be told."

Mr. Billingham accepted with alacrity. They made their way into the almost deserted salon of the hotel and the young man, after a few minutes' absence for a wash and a change of linen, seated himself at the table opposite his guest. His clothes were well-cut, but a trifle shabby. He was, however, entirely presentable and Mr. Billingham found his original impressions confirmed.

"Read that first," Powell enjoined, producing a newspaper cutting from the Times. "I found it in the personal column a fortnight ago."

Mr. Billingham adjusted his glasses and read:—

WANTED. Ex-officer or young man of courage, willing to risk his life in a dangerous enterprise. Adequate remuneration. No hardship, but real danger. Applicant must produce unexceptionable references and be unmarried.—Apply Box B. 771. The Times, E. C. 4.

"I saw this," Mr. Billingham declared, tapping the cutting with his forefinger. "I remember wondering at the time whether it was genuine."

"I should think it is probably genuine enough, judging from last night," the young man observed. "Anyhow, I answered the advertisement. I happen to have a few decent medals and a pretty good record, and I got the job. I was passed through three hands before I came to the principal. I can't tell you his name, but he is the head of the greatest financial and exploration company in the world. The job when I got it seemed almost ludicrously simple. I was to bring a packet here and deliver it safely to the person for whom it was intended."

"Sounds pie to me," Mr. Billingham commented. "Why don't you deliver it and get it off your chest?"

"It isn't quite so simple as that. Even the person who entrusted me with the commission didn't know exactly who would come for the packet. They could only tell me how to recognise him when he did arrive. Meanwhile, as they warned me, there's an ugly crowd around, who would like, apparently, to nobble me and get hold of it, whatever it may be."

Mr. Billingham for the first time felt inclined to doubt his companion's bona fides. His story on the face of it was scarcely convincing.

"Do you know what this mysterious packet of yours contains?" he enquired.

"Not an idea," the young man confessed. "Do you know what sort of person you have to look out for?"

"He isn't an ordinary personage," was the somewhat hesitating reply. "I shall probably know when he is here."

Mr. Billingham coughed. The greatest in the world are not infallible. For once in his life he had arrived at a wrong decision.

"Well," he remarked, as he pushed back his chair and rose, "I wish you luck. I must be getting along."

The young man walked with him to the door. The air was filled with soft sunlight and the faintest of southern breezes stirred the leaves of the trees in the gardens on their left. The hour was still early and there were few people about. A dark-skinned denizen of some southern race was reading a newspaper in the little railed-off space in front of the hotel. Powell glanced towards him with a frown.

"Another of the brutes!" he muttered. "On guard, I suppose. . . . Well, good-morning, sir. Thank you very much for your help."

Mr. Billingham, whose interest in the affair had experienced a slight revival, had a question to ask, but his companion had already left him. Just before he reached the opposite side of the way, he turned around, conscious of an unusual noise. An elderly gentleman of military appearance was knocking the stone balustrade behind which the solitary occupant of the hotel piazza was seated— knocking it with the obvious intention of attracting the dark- skinned foreigner's notice. Mr. Billing paused on the pretence of lighting a cigarette. He saw the young man who had been reading the newspaper rise to his feet and he heard the exchange of a few sentences in the strangest language to which he had ever listened. After a moment or two, the foreigner, with a curious little bow, resumed his seat, and the elderly gentleman who had accosted him turned towards the gardens. Mr. Billingham, as he passed, beamed at him amiably.

"If I'm not taking a liberty, sir," he said, "I should very much like to know what language that might have been you were talking just now. Don't seem to me that I've ever heard it before."

"I don't suppose you have, sir," was the not ungracious reply. "I don't suppose there's another white man in the place except myself who can speak it. It's the language of a God-forsaken little country right at the back end of Mesopotamia. I had a draft of the natives in a regiment I commanded during the war."

Mr. Billingham fell into step with his companion and signified his interest monosyllabically.

"Gave me quite a start to see that young man seated there in European clothes," the latter continued. "This place is full, of course, of AngloIndians, and there are a few Egyptians, but an Arab of that young man's race very seldom finds his way into civilisation. Damned fine fellows they are, too, most of them!"

"Did he explain his presence here?" Mr. Billingham enquired.

His companion smiled—a smile with which was associated a slight grimace.

"He did not," he admitted. "He seemed rather disturbed at my recognition, but in the politest possible manner he told me to go to the devil. . . . I wish you good-morning, sir. I am due at my barber's." . . .

The Marquis de Felan, Mr. Billingham's friend and confederate, was in high spirits that evening. He had won almost as much in the afternoon on his two favourite numbers as he had lost the evening before, and he insisted upon paying for the dinner with the money which he had previously borrowed from his guest.

"At roulette," he declared didactically, "all that is needed is confidence. I say to myself 'my numbers will arrive—they shall arrive.' I see them arriving and behold they follow one another. But for the unfortunate closing of the tables in the Club at eight o'clock I firmly believe that my winnings this evening would have been enormous."

"You did pretty well as it was, didn't you?" Mr. Billingham asked.

The Marquis hesitated.

"I was on the point of doing well," he confided. "I had re-established myself. A little more capital"

"As a matter of fact," Mr. Billingham interrupted, "a little more capital is what we all need. What about you, Miss Madelon?"

Madelon opened her purse and disclosed its contents.

"I am, what you call, nearly on the rocks," she admitted. "I have a hundred-franc note, perhaps two hundred francs' worth of counters, and a fivehundred-franc note at home in my stocking."

"At home," the Marquis repeated disconsolately. "I was rather hoping"

"Quite impossible," Madelon pronounced decisively. "My last five hundred francs does not go to the tables. Dear chief," she went on, turning to her neighbour, "the time has arrived for us to act. Is there nobody here we can rob?"

Mr. Billingham shook his head sorrowfully.

"I can think of no one," he confessed, "whom we can rob safely and honestly."

"One might perhaps draw the line a little less rigidly," the Marquis suggested, polishing his eyeglass.

"I'm not out to look for trouble," Mr. Billingham grunted. "No thank you! I guess if you're up a gum tree, Marquis, the croupiers at the Sporting Club have raked in the bits. I myself have not touched that whip-up for charity we worked Mrs. Groosens for. And as for Miss Madelon, you know her position."

Madelon shrugged her shoulders with a little gesture of despair. The Marquis hastened to explain.

"A loan, my dear!" he insisted. "I owe you money. I admit it. All shall be paid. In the nleantime, however, our need for capital is somewhat urgent. I am delighted to hear that our friend is in a position to make us a small advance if necessary."

"Mr. Billingham is in a position to do nothing of the sort," Madelon replied. "You have borrowed all my money, Uncle. That must be enough for you. Think of some way of earning it. We will all help. We are an amazing trio—unscrupulous, clever, brave! We are surrounded by pleasure-seekers and fools. There must be some means by which they can be induced to add to our exchequer."

"Guess it's up to you to sound the tocsin, Marquis," Mr. Billingham declared. "You need the money. We don't happen to, just at the moment. Do you get me?"

The Marquis coughed.

"In a partnership like ours," he began, "a certain community of interest as regards—"

"Cut it out!" Mr. Billingham interrupted brutally. "You've had your share of everything we've done. You've borrowed from your niece, you've borrowed from me. If you can't win, quit it!"

"One needs capital," the Marquis complained. "Besides playing my numbers I have perfected a system which will infallibly bring me in a profit as soon as I get it started."

"Sell it to one of my fellow-countrymen," Mr. Billingham advised. "There are three or four hundred of them landing to-morrow morning. Three or four hundred Americans plumb full of the stuff, with fat pocket-books and large letters of credit!"

The Marquis' eyes glistened wistfully as he toyed with his eyeglass. Suddenly he arrived at an heroic decision.

"I shall go down to the quay," he announced. "I shall offer my services as guide. I will compete with the brawny ruffian from Cooks."

Mr. Billingham smiled incredulously. He said nothing, but the effect of the smile was potent.

"You think that I would not do that?" his vis-à-vis demanded.

"I'll match you a mille you don't," was the prompt challenge.

The Marquis hesitated for a moment, gulped and made up his mind.

"Your wager is accepted," he declared. "The money will be mine."

Almost as he spoke the siren of the great incoming steamer rang out its blatant announcement, dwarfing all other noises, audible from Mentone to Beaulieu. Mr. Billingham smiled once more.

"Guess you don't need to worry, Marquis," he observed. "No one will be allowed to land until tomorrow morning. The first tender-full will arrive in the harbour at about nine o'clock, with money oozing out of their finger- nails."

"I shall be there," was the other's valiant pronouncement.

Amongst several hundreds of intrepid transatlantic sight-seers, there stepped from the tender on to the dock at Monaco, the following morning, the illustrious family of the Henry P. Hootermans of Chicago. The family consisted of Mrs. Henry P. Hooterman, a short, squat lady with an immense capacity for speech, pushing in a crowd, and managing her own and everyone else's affairs. She was of dark complexion, sallow, and she wore huge tortoise shell spectacles. She carried a jewel case, which was somewhat ostentatiously chained to her wrist, and in the other hand an umbrella. She had flat feet which seemed always to take up a little more than their share of room upon the earth, and a voice and mien of authority which had won for her the position of President of the Society of Women Thinkers in her home city. She was accompanied by her daughter, Mamie, who had some claim to good looks and whose eyes were certainly dark and almost beautiful, but whose chances of success in life were considerably handicapped by the maternal environment. There were also a younger daughter, Sadie, still in her early teens, freckled, loquacious and gawky; a lad, who bitterly resented the whole undertaking; and finally Mr. Henry P. Hooterman himself, a tall, thin man, sombrely dressed, of pallid complexion, who had more the appearance of a Methodist minister than the multi-millionaire he was reputed to be. This estimable quintette stood upon the landing-stage and looked around them.

"What we need," Mrs. Henry P. Hooterman said firmly, "to give us points about this place, is a Cook's man. Hi, you!" she added, lifting her umbrella and addressing an individual in a gold-laced cap. "Say, are you Cook's or American Express?"

The functionary in question, who happened to be one of the five officers of the standing army of Monaco and ignorant of any of the barbarian tongues, turned coldly away. The boy, looking upwards, espied a familiar sight.

"Say," he exclaimed, "there's a trolley-car up there. I guess if we can make the road we can have a ride round."

"Anyway," his father decided, "we'll be moving along."

It was at this precise moment that the Marquis, who had been talking for a moment to the ship's doctor, with whom he had some slight acquaintance, approached. He raised his hat and addressed Mrs. Henry P. Hooterman in his own language.

"Madame is perhaps in need of some information?" he suggested.

They all looked at him blankly; Mamie in frank admiration.

"Say, ain't they some dressers, Momma!" she exclaimed.

"Isn't he cute!" Sadie echoed.

"Sorry we don't get you," Mr. Hooterman apologised. "We're Americans."

The Marquis removed his hat once more.

"It is for that reason," he explained in English, "that I have ventured to address you. It appeared to me that you might be in need of some information or advice. I am a resident here. My services are at your disposal."

The little party were at once interested.

"Want to show us round, eh?" Mr. Hooterman ventured doubtfully.

"That would give me great pleasure," the Marquis assented. "I might add that I only offer my services occasionally. I believe I have the honour to address Senator Henry P. Hooterman of Chicago."

So far as the countenance of a man whose skin was rather like dried-up leather could express emotion, it was obvious that Mr. Hooterman was pleased. He smiled in wintry fashion.

"You know me," he observed.

"Monte Carlo was apprised of your intended visit," the Marquis rejoined with trenchant grandiloquence. "It was to meet you that I am here. I am not, it is true, a professional guide, but I sometimes occupy that position to people of distinction. My services are at your disposal for the day for the sum of five hundred francs."

"Steep!" Mr. Hooterman commented.

"He talks some!" Mrs. Hooterman agreed.

"I think it would be lovely to be taken round by someone who really knows the place," Miss Mamie cooed.

"That will include your meals and all gratuities?" Mrs. Hooterman enquired.

"It will be inclusive," the Marquis promised. "If you decide to engage me I am at your disposal. Otherwise," he added, glancing across the quay towards another little group.

"Those horrid Smithsons!" Mamie interrupted. "Dad, fix this up, please."

"You are engaged," Mr. Hooterman declared. "Lead on. What shall we do first?" . . .

Many a time in later days the Marquis' tone shook with emotion when he spoke of that morning. It is certain that he carried out his task manfully. He deposited the little company in an automobile and took them to the Casino. He obtained their cartes d'entrée in advance of a long line of their fellow-passengers—a fact which immensely impressed the elder members of the family. He explained the game—to the details of which they listened with great earnestness—and at his suggestion Mr. Hooterman changed a note for a hundred dollars into counters, which, with the exception of a small handful which he retained for purposes of instruction, the Marquis distributed amongst his companions.

"Now," he said, "I will show you how the betting is done."

He placed one of the counters on fourteen and one on twenty-nine. One which Mamie thrust upon him he placed on "red." They all watched breathlessly. The Marquis gave a little start as the ball slipped into its place and the croupier's monotonous voice recited the result.

"Quatorze, pair, rouge et manque"

The Marquis leaned gallantly across, picked up two louis from the "rouge" and handed them to Miss Mamie.

"You have won, Mademoiselle," he announced. "So, it appears, have I."

He accepted thirty-five louis and swept them into his pocket. Mr. Hooterman watched him, fascinated. Mrs. Hooterman nudged her husband. Mamie smiled rapturously.

"Say, did you win all that?" she exclaimed.

"I did," the Marquis acquiesced blandly. "By the by, the original louis belongs to your father. Pray take it and place it where you will upon the table."

He returned the counter and explained further the system of staking. Several more ventures were essayed without result. Then, as it had been necessary to leave the boy and Sadie outside, they quitted the rooms and embarked upon a personally conducted drive to La Turbie and Mentone, winding up outside the Arcade which led to Ciro's. The Marquis, who had been sitting in front, gallantly helped Mrs. Hooterman and Mamie to alight.

"It is, perhaps, the luncheon hour," he ventured.

"Yes, sirree," Mamie assented enthusiastically and with great emphasis.

"You spoke a mouthful, Mr. Guide," Henry junior declared.

The Marquis was puzzled, but gathered that his suggestion was favourably received. They made their way along the Arcade until they were met by a maître d'hôtel from the restaurant. The season was waning and they were welcome guests. The manager himself ushered them to a table upon the balcony.

"With what can I have the pleasure of serving Monsieur le Marquis?" he enquired, presenting the bill of fare.

One and all, the little party looked up in amazement. The Marquis found them strangely acquiescent in the matter of the luncheon he ordered. They did not even flinch at the idea of cocktails. As soon as the waiter had departed Mamie leaned forward.

"Why did that man with the black tie call you 'Marquis'?" she demanded.

"It happens to be the title which belongs to me," the Marquis explained, dropping his horn-rimmed eyeglass and gazing amiably around. The luncheon he had ordered consisted, curiously enough, of all his favourite dishes and he felt at peace with the world.

"You mean that you are a real Marquis—a nobleman?" Mamie persisted.

"My family has been noble for seven hundred years," the Marquis replied modestly, yet with some dignity. "I am the eleventh Marquis de Felan and I happen to be also a Count of the Holy Roman Empire."

"Say, what are you doing in this guide business, anyway?" Mrs. Hooterman queried, after a moment's awed silence.

The Marquis shrugged his shoulders slightly.

"I am not in the guide business," he declared. "To tell you the truth I have never before undertaken such an enterprise. I happen to be temporarily somewhat embarrassed financially and a friend of mine—a compatriot of yours, by the by—bet me a considerable sum of money that I would not offer my services to a family from your steamer and show them Monte Carlo. I took the liberty," he went on, with a little bow towards Mamie, "of showing some discrimination, and—well, nous voilà!"

"Why, did you ever hear anything like this?" Mamie exclaimed.

"Shucks!" her younger sister murmured.

"Say, don't you wear anything if you're a Marquis?" Henry junior asked discontentedly.

"I knew he wasn't an ordinary guide," Mrs. Hooterman confided under her breath to her husband.

"Here, by the by," the Marquis continued, in high good-humour, "comes the gentleman with whom I made the wager and my niece. Permit me," he added, as Mr. Billingham and Madelon paused on their way to a table, "to present my niece and Mr. Billingham—Mr. Henry P. Hooterman and family."

Mr. Hooterman held out his hand and gazed earnestly at his compatriot.

"Linoleum?" he asked.

"You've said it," was the prompt assent.

"Boots," Mr. Hooterman confided.

"I know the plant," Mr. Billingham declared. "The Hooterman, Steadman Plant, Chicago."

"Sit right down, you and the young lady," Mr. Hooterman invited. "We've just heard of that wager of yours. Join us in a bite of luncheon, sir." Places were laid and a curious but interesting meal was started. Madelon sat between Mamie and her younger sister and enjoyed herself immensely. Mrs. Hooterman told the Marquis all about the Women's Guild and how she became President, and Mr. Billingham discoursed eloquently on financial subjects. They were perhaps half- way through a very excellent repast when Ben Hassim, with half a dozen carpets hung from his shoulders in picturesque fashion, made his smiling and dignified appearance.

"The gentleman would like to take home to New York something wonderful—a carpet fit for a palace?" he enquired, displaying one of his rugs.

"Say, did you ever!" Mrs. Hooterman exclaimed, gazing hard through her tortoise shell spectacles. "What sort of a foreigner might he be, Marquis?"

"Either an Arab or an Egyptian," the Marquis replied. "He probably comes from somewhere beyond Jaffa."

"He looks quite romantic!" Mamie sighed. "Momma, that's a beautiful blue rug."

"A thousand francs," Ben Hassim declared, smoothing it down—"in your country a thousand dollars. I take it to the steamer for you." Mrs. Hooterman fell to examining the texture of the carpet, and Mr. Hooterman began to make facetious suggestions as to possible reductions in the price. Suddenly Mamie gave a little exclamation.

"The Prince!" she exclaimed. "Isn't he handsome?"

They all glanced along the terrace. A man, tall, olive-skinned, with the thin aquiline nose and brilliant eyes of an Arab, dressed in robes of flowing white, with a white turban and gold bracelets upon his arms, advanced in leisurely fashion towards one of the empty tables, followed by a servant. The vendor of carpets dropped his wares and performed a strange, genuflectory reverence, to which the other replied only by a slight upraising of his hand. He passed on to the empty table and seated himself with the servant behind his chair.

"Say, do you folks know who that is?" Mr. Billingham enquired with interest.

"He's a Sheik or Prince from somewhere in Mesopotamia," Mamie declared. "He got on the steamer at Jaffa. They said that he had flown from Bagdad in an aeroplane which belonged to the British Government. Isn't he just the most picturesque dear that ever lived?"

Mr. Billingham nodded a little absently. There were other things interesting him just at that moment. In the first place, Leonard Powell, the Englishman who had been occupying a table in a distant corner, had risen to his feet and was< gazing across with eager interest at the object of Mamie's admiration. Furthermore, the young foreigner who had been seated outside the Robespierre Hotel earlier in the morning had also made his appearance in the Arcade accompanied by a smaller, coarser and more vicious edition of himself. The two had paused, half-way between the bar and the terrace restaurant, and were talking together eagerly. Their whole attention also seemed concentrated upon the Arab Sheik, who never once glanced in their direction. . . . Then, too, a change had come over Ben Hassim. He had dropped his wares and his eyes were fixed in almost terrified fashion upon the two newcomers. His rugs lay in a little neglected heap upon the floor. He mumbled to himself in some strange dialect. Continually he looked backwards and forwards from the spot where the two had halted to the table where the Arab Prince was seated. The climax of his disquietude arrived when the taller of the former, followed by his unprepossessing companion, began to move forward. Mr. Billingham half unconsciously rose to his feet. He felt the need of freedom in case action was required of him, yet of what might be going to happen he had not the faintest idea. It was Henry junior who first supplied a hint as to the possible course of the proceedings.

"Say, isn't that a dandy dagger!" he exclaimed breathlessly.

Mr. Billingham's eyes followed the direction of the boy's eagerly pointing finger. Ben Hassim had retained one of the rugs upon his arm, and beneath its folds, partially concealed, his right hand was gripping a long, curved knife of wickedlooking blue steel, the hilt of which was of beaten silver, set with precious stones. With the rug still hanging over his arm, he moved stealthily out until he stood almost as though it were his purpose to intercept the two Europeanised Arabians.

The manager of the restaurant, conscious of something unusual, hurried up with an angry exclamation. Ben Hassim took no notice. His eyes were fixed upon the advancing figures. Suddenly he began to talk rapidly in French to the manager. The latter appeared at first bewildered and then incredulous. Finally he turned away towards the two young foreigners whom the carpet vendor was indicating now with almost frantic gestures. He bowed, as though welcoming prospective clients.

"You wish for a table on the terrace, sir?" he enquired.

The foremost of the two young men hesitated. Ben Hassim took advantage of his pause to creep round the other tables and emerge upon the Arcade with one rug still hanging over his arm, effectually concealing the knife which only Henry junior and Mr. Billingham had seen. He stood between the table where the Prince was seated and the civilised parody of himself, about whose deliberate approach there had been indeed something almost sinister. The latter, checked in his advance by the manager, was led reluctantly to a table. Ben Hassim turned and with head respectfully bowed commenced to talk to the Prince—to talk in a strange language with many gestures and brandishing of the arms, almost with tears in his eyes. The Prince listened without movement, without any sign of hearing. In the end, however, he rose to his feet, and, screened still by the carpet vendor, turned and entered the indoors portion of the restaurant. Hassim stood in the entrance, breathing heavily, drops of perspiration upon his dusky forehead, agitated yet triumphant. The manager came across to him, frowning.

"There are things here," Hassim said, "which you may not understand—nor even I, wholly. You wish to avoid trouble in this restaurant. Go, then, and bring the Englishman to me who sits at the corner table."

The manager was angry. He had a shrewd idea as to what it was that Hassim held in his hand beneath that rug.

"If there is any brawling here," he threatened, "never again shall you bring your rugs to my clients."

"That will be as Allah directs," was the quiet reply. "Send or seek that Englishman."

The manager, with a shrug of his shoulders, turned away and approached the young Englishman who had risen from his place but had seemed for the last few seconds uncertain how to act. Mr. Billingham, who had been watching his two nearer neighbours, turned to his companions.

"Will you folks just excuse me one moment?" he begged. "I want to say a word to our dusky friend there."

He made his way to the adjoining table, and, uninvited, took the third chair. Neither the young man whom he had seen earlier in the morning, nor his more villainous-looking companion, indulged in any immediate comment upon this very singular behaviour. The former simply looked at the newcomer with expressionless face and eyes from which even enquiry was absent, but the latter's right hand stole promptly underneath the table-cloth and remained out of sight.

"Say, you understand plain English, don't you?" Mr. Billingham asked.

"Naturally," was the calm reply.

"If you don't put your right hand upon the table this second," Mr. Billingham declared, "I'll take you by the scruff of the neck and throw you out, and your gun after you!"

Mr. Billingham's arm was outstretched; a strong, muscular arm. The little Arab with the squinting eyes looked into this intruder's face and decided that it was without doubt the face of a man who meant what he said. He was prompt to obey.

"Now we can talk," Mr. Billingham continued, his eyes straying for a moment to the corner where the Englishman was standing irresolute, leaning upon his stick. "I'm taking a hand in a game I don't quite tumble to, but I guess I'll see it through. You're going to sit here quietly opposite me for another three minutes and let things rip."

"Who are you and why do you interfere?" the taller of the two young Arabs demanded. "What is your interest in this matter?"

"I guess you'd better not be too inquisitive," was the curt reply.

The young man watched with sullen eyes the Englishman, who, with the manager by his side, was now making his way towards the restaurant. He looked back at Mr. Billingham.

"If you knew what was going on there," he said, pointing significantly towards the entrance to the restaurant

Mr. Billingham, not wholly, but partially, fell. Ever so slightly he turned his head in the direction indicated. Instantly the younger of the two Arabs, with a movement of incredible swiftness, stooped and half rose again. The sun, which was streaming in through the glass windows, flashed upon his silver-plated pistol. Quick though he was, however, he was not quick enough. With a sudden terrible blow, Mr. Billingham struck and pinned his hand to the table. The pistol clattered harmlessly on to the floor. The young man's eyes glared. There was murder in his face. He dived, sprang to his feet, swayed one way and another. In Mr. Billingham's Herculean grip, however, he was helpless. A couple of waiters hurried forward, followed by the manager. One of them picked up the pistol.

"What is the matter?" the manager demanded.

"Nothing, so long as we don't let him move," Mr. Billingham replied. "There's some trouble going on. I can't get the hang of it, but this little one is the guy who meant mischief."

The Englishman emerged from the restaurant, with a smile of triumph upon his face. He waved his hand to Mr. Billingham. Then, recognising that something unusual had happened, he came over to the table.

"Are you through with your little job?" Mr. Billingham enquired.

"I am," was the prompt reply, "and jolly glad of it, too! ... Is there anything wrong here?" he added, with a curious glance at Mr. Billingham's companions.

"There might have been if I hadn't taken a chance," Mr. Billingham acquiesced.

"You had better let him go," the taller of the two young Arabs advised, breaking at last his long and impassive silence. "Our task is over. We have failed. The evil has come. The message has been delivered. All that we desire is to depart. I pledge you my word that my brother is now safe. He carries the symbol! He may not be touched!"

Mr. Billingham released his grip, and, in obedience to a sign from the manager, the vestiaire brought the two young men their hats and sticks. Very slowly they made their way back down the Arcade and disappeared. Ben Hassim stepped forward from the threshold of the restaurant. Once more he took up his place by the side of his little pile of carpets. Once more that broad and delightful smile illuminated his face.

"It was the great chief of my tribe," he explained. "I had to pay my respects. It is a happy day, this. I will say eight hundred francs. The carpet to you shall be as a thank-offering."

"Delivered down to the steamer?" Mr. Hooterman stipulated.

"You pay me when I bring it," was the dignified response.

"Say, what about that knife?" Henry junior demanded. "Buy that for me, Dad."

"Knife?" Hassim repeated, shaking his head slowly and extending his arms. "I carry no knife. One lives in peace on this side of the blue sea." Less than a mile from the land, the great steamer lay at anchor, blazing with lights. Twice her siren had made the night hideous. Now, with puffing and snorting, the last tender, filled with passengers, had left the harbour. The Marquis, well- content, replaced his hat upon his head, lit a cigarette, and stuffed, with amusement, his five hundred francs into his pocket. Hassim gathered up his rugs one by one, after a final glance into the brown leather pocket-book where eight hundred francs were safely bestowed. It had been a great day for him.

Suddenly he felt a hand upon his shoulder. He looked round quickly and perhaps it was some revival of an ancient instinct which sent his right hand down to the folds of his robe. When he recognized Mr. Billingham, however, he shrugged his shoulders and smiled.

"Hassim, my friend," Mr. Billingham begged, "put me wise to what has been happening. Curiosity disturbs my digestion. And let me remind you of this. I, too, had a hand in the game. It was I who found the Englishman recovering from his drugs outside the Café de Paris this morning. Even as I led him away the other came down the hill."

Hassim nodded gravely.

"They come from the land which was once mine," he explained. "He, the Prince, who to-night is in the air—for he flies back from Nice to Jaffa and thence to the valleys where his kingdom lies— and the others, one of whom was his brother."

Mr. Billingham was patient.

"The Englishman brought a letter or something of the sort," he suggested.

Ben Hassim looked around him. They were walking very slowly along the quay. Perhaps the weight of his rugs was great.

"Listen," he said. "Years ago, before the great war, there came to the country where I was born —a great kingdom it was, and is, and ever will be —one of those strange Englishmen who seek for wealth. He stayed nearly a year with the King, the father of the Prince and that other. He paid money which made the Kingdom of my country richer in camels and horses and women and jewellery than any other, and he took in exchange the land where the oil was. But before he left, so that the King might not go back on his bargain, he took with him the secret token, without which no man can be crowned King."

"The secret token?" Mr. Billingham repeated. "I don't get you."

"It is an image of the first king of my country —two thousand years old—beaten in gold," the vendor of carpets continued solemnly. "In it there are emeralds for eyes, rubies for lips, and pearls for teeth, yet so thin is it that a man might carry it in his pocket-book.

"They took it to England, but when they came to sink the wells and the pledge should have been redeemed, the war came. That other—the youngest son of the King—he chose what they call civilisation. He came to England, to school and to college. The Prince remained. Last year the King died."

"Tell me the name of this country," Mr. Billingham begged.

Hassim shook his head.

"Since I left it, I speak of it no longer," he declared. "The King, as I told you, died. That other had become what you see him—a Western creature. He made favour with the Ministers in England. He sought for the throne of his father —the throne which belonged to the Prince—but the Prince, though this is the first time he has ever left his country, was the chosen of the people. He sent to those who owned the token. The land was theirs. The war was over. These English were honest men. The other, he too tried for the token. By arrangement—I know not whose—they sent it here. The other followed him. Because he might not raise his hand against his brother, he brought with him a friend of evil repute. If he could take back the token, the kingship was his. He failed." . . .

The Marquis caught them up. He was in high spirits.

"Madelon waits for us at the Café de Paris," he told Mr. Billingham. "We have supper together and you will pay me a thousand francs. The family of Hooterman were well pleased with me. La belle Mamie has presented me with her photograph, Madame has invited me to Chicago, and Monsieur added a benefice to my fee. If you will give me what you owe me, my friend, I may consider paying for our supper."

They took a little voiture and drove up to the Café de Paris. After the strain of the earlier part of the day, they found themselves singularly gay. At the next table, Hassim was stroking one of his beautiful rugs as he displayed it to a little party of new arrivals. The brother of the Prince was dancing with a professional danseuse. The Marquis, who was still in high spirits, called for the wine waiter.

"I am appreciating the joy," he explained to his companions, "of leisure and recreation after toil. You others, what have you done? I, on the contrary, have gained—when you, my friend Billingham, have paid me—fifteen hundred francs."

"I," Mr. Billingham protested, "have also been busy. I have saved the life of a Prince."

"And I," Madelon sighed, "have heard all about her Women's Guild from Mrs. Henry P. Hooterman of Chicago."

"I will pay for the wine," the Marquis decided.</story>