<story title="THE DELIVERANCE OF MRS. KINSEY" date="1915">
NO doubt the Colonel was right about giving Monte Carlo a rest for a time, but I'm not sure that Grasse was exactly the spot I'd have chosen myself for a fortnight's breathing spell. By the time we'd done the scent factories and taken a few excursions around, we'd pretty well used the place up. The Colonel seemed to enjoy the rest all right, but three or four days of it was quite enough for me. To put the matter plainly, I soon became bored with Grasse.

I think that it was on the evening of our fifth day there that we took a short stroll before dinner on the little southern promenade, which fringes the principal street of the place and seems rather like a shelf cut out of the mountains. The Colonel was inclined to be a trifle chirpy. He had found another old Anglo-Indian in about the same stage of fossilization as himself, and the two had spent most of the day together, gossiping about their lurid pasts.

'It was here, my young friend,' he reminded me, as we paused in our promenade and looked down the valley, 'that the great Napoleon came to seek rest. I trust that appeals to you.'

'Read it all up in the guide-book, I told him gloomily. 'If it was rest he wanted, I guess he found it here right enough.'

'You cannot expect adventures in every corner of the world,' the Colonel insisted. 'Besides, look at the view.'

I gazed across the valley, down past the groves of blossoming peach trees, across the rich brown earth of the violet-farms and the vineyards, over the sunny slopes where flowers for the scent factories were cultivated, great patches of glowing colours melting into the pine-hung hills. In the background towered the mountains, and in the far distance were faint glimpses of Cannes and the blue Mediterranean.

'The view's all right,' I admitted, with a little sigh, 'but I've no use for a place on this earth that hasn't a decent American bar. Lukewarm mixed vermouth—.'

The Colonel turned briskly around and called to a waiter who was hanging about outside the café. I will say this for these one-horse French places, that wherever you do find what they call a promenade, you find a café and chairs right alongside.

'A mixed vermouth,' he remarked, 'may cheer us up.'

'Any sort of a drink,' I assented, 'is better than none. If only there was such a thing as a little ice to be had, and lemon!'

The Colonel fixed that all right, and it struck me, when I set my glass down, that the view wasn't so bad, after all.

'This place has its points,' I observed.'What's wanted here is a slap-up hotel with all the modern civilizations. A little American enterprise—'

'Quite out of place,' the Colonel interrupted testily. 'You haven't got the atmosphere quite yet, Edmund.'

I was on the point of answering him when I stopped short and half-turned my head. I distinctly heard my own name and heard it pronounced, too, by an unmistakable American voice. A young man and woman were strolling along the front towards us. A moment later I was shaking hands vigorously with both of them.

'Say, isn't this bully, Ned!' I exclaimed. 'Bessie, too! Why, of all places in the world, to think you should find your way here! Sit right down with us and look at the view, and we'll have a mixed vermouth. The view's great, but it's the only thing here worth looking at. Say, let me introduce my friend, Colonel Green, late of the British Army—Mr. Ned Kinsey and Mrs. Kinsey. Ned was at college with me, Colonel, and a fellow-passenger on the Olympic coming over, too.'

'We were second-class, though,' Bessie laughed, 'so we didn't see very much of Mr. Martin.'

The Colonel mumbled something which sounded moderately pleasant, but I never took much notice of him, for I knew he hated our American custom of introducing our friends to one another the moment we met. I managed to make a waiter understand what we wanted and we were pretty soon all chatting together in real friendly fashion.

'Ned, old fellow,' I exclaimed, 'I can't tell you how glad I am to see you two again without that chap Mulholland hanging around! Bessie was saying just now that you didn't see much of me on the steamer. That was simply because I couldn't bear the sight of the fellow and he never seemed to leave you for a moment.'

Ned seemed a little embarrassed and Bessie's face was suddenly grave.

'Sorry you don't like him,' Ned remarked. 'As a matter of fact, he is here with us now—brought us over in his car.'

'The dickens he did!' I muttered, 'Of course,' I blundered on, 'I thought he was just a steamer acquaintance. If he really is a friend of yours, I'm sorry.'

We all looked at one another a little uneasily for a time and conversation kind of hung fire. It was Bessie who steered it clear again.

'I suppose you know,' she sighed, 'that Ned's father won't have anything to do with us—wouldn't even let us go to Paris to see him?'

'I'm sorry to hear that,' I told them.

'It's a bad job,' Ned interposed gloomily. 'I hope he'll come round soon or I don't know what we shall do.'

Bessie laughed hopefully.

'Well, we're making a living, anyhow,-' she announced.'Do you know what we are doing?'

'No idea,' I confessed.

'I've gone back on the stage and Ned is helping me. We've been promised an engagement in London later on. You've no idea how clever Ned is.'

'I know he used to amuse us all at college,' I told her, 'but of course I never dreamed of his taking it up seriously.'

'We are doing short stunts down at the hotels around here,' Ned explained, a little shamefacedly.'It keeps us going, anyway.'

'That's great! I declared. 'Why, you must be the Bessie and Jack Clayton who are to appear at the hotel to-night?'

The girl nodded.

'Of course we are, and we shall expect you to put ten francs in the plate when it comes round. They tell me that the place isn't very full up here,' she added dolefully.

'Never mind, we'll give you a good send off,' I promised. 'Say, can't you both dine with me first?'

For a moment Bessie looked as though she'd jump into my arms at the idea. Then she seemed suddenly to remember.

'There's Mr. Mulholland,' she sighed. 'He brought us over in his motor-car, you know.'

Now it's a whim of mine but I've no fancy for asking a man I don't like either to eat or drink with me, so at that I said no more. I made up my mind, however, to have a talk to Ned later on, for, considering that he was only a casual acquaintance, I don't think I ever met a man in this world I disliked more than Mulholland.

'Well, I shall see the show, anyhow,' I said, as we all strolled up to the hotel,' and we'll have a drink together afterwards. . . .'


The Colonel and I occupied our usual little table in a corner of the dining-room that night, and a few places away sat Mr. Mulholland and Mr. and Mrs. Kinsey. The Colonel looked at them once or twice through his eyeglass, and I could see that he was making up his mind about them.

'Your young friend Mrs. Kinsey,' he pronounced, 'seems to be a very delightful young person and remarkably pretty. Her husband seems a decent young fellow, too, but if the third person is the Mr. Mulholland you were speaking of, I am bound to say that I decidedly share your aversion.'

'Ned's all right,' I agreed.'He is three or four years; younger than I am, but we were at Harvard for nearly-a year together. He's a good sort but weak. He ran away with his wife and I was afraid there would be trouble about it. She's a dear little lady and as good as they make them, but she certainly was on the stage.'

The Colonel relapsed into silence, and, doubtless from the fact that there wasn't another soul in the room in whom it was possible to feel the slightest interest, I found myself paying a good deal of attention to my young friends and their companion. I was conscious of a feeling of some concern about them.

I remembered Ned Kinsey and his little girl wife, on the voyage over, as two of the happiest-looking young people on the ship. Evidently things had gone wrong with them since then. Ned had the restless look of a man with something on his mind which he couldn't get away from. He drank a great deal of champagne without seeming to get in the least degree more cheerful.

Bessie, too, seemed to have lost all her light-hearted girlishness, and somehow or other I found myself attributing everything, without knowing why, to their host's presence. The more I looked at Mulholland, the more I found myself disliking him. An American sportsman he called himself, because he'd owned a dozen racehorses, which he'd run like a crook, and knew his way about shady New York. He was a fellow about fifty years old, stout but unhealthy-looking, flashily dressed, and wearing a good deal of the wrong sort of jewellery in the wrong way.

I could hear his voice over where I sat, except when he was whispering to Mrs. Kinsey, which seemed to me to be pretty often. I knew a little about Mr. Mulholland, and for the life of me I couldn't see at first what his present game was. The Kinseys admitted that they were up against it, good and hard, without anything more in the world than what they earned from week to week, so there wasn't much that even a bloodsucker like Mulholland could make out of them. Then I happened to see him look down at Bessie once and I guessed. The rest of my dinner I sent away untouched.

We all came together in the lounge after dinner. I contrived to get Ned to myself for a moment or two, which was easy enough, as Mulholland had cornered Bessie and was making her drink a liqueur. I gave Ned a cigar and strolled round with him to the little stage which had been put up for the performance.

'Did you know anything of Mulholland before you met him on the steamer?' I inquired.

'Very little,' Ned admitted.'He came behind at one of our shows down Broadway.'

'Ned,' I went on, laying my hand on his shoulder, 'this is no affair of mine, but if I were a young fellow like you and had a wife as pretty as Bessie, I'd find a better pal than Mulholland.'

He seemed suddenly furious, although I had been flattering myself that I had put the matter tactfully.

'What the devil are you insinuating?' he demanded.

'I am insinuating nothing,' I replied, 'because I prefer plain-speaking. I want to tell you right here, Ned, that Mulholland is a dead out-and-out wrong 'un, and that your wife's a dear little lady who ought not to be brought into contact with such a beast.'

For a moment his lips quivered and I began to guess how the matter lay. His attempt at remonstrance, however, was very feeble and almost pathetic.

'You are mistaken about Mulholland,' he insisted.'He's a rough son of chap but he's all right, and I am under certain obligations to him. As for Bessie,' he added, with a kind of spurious dignity, 'she'd know how to treat any man who forgot himself for a moment.'

'No one doubts that,' I answered seriously.'I wanted to warn you, that's all. Mulholland isn't used to ladies' society.'

After that we parted and I sat with the Colonel and watched the show. It was good enough, of its sort, but nothing wonderful. Bessie danced and sang prettily, and Ned did the usual ventriloquist's business with the addition of a few conjuring tricks.

Mulholland sat in a comer and watched them, his cheeks puffed out and a big cigar in his mouth. His eyes were simply riveted upon the stage during Bessie's dance, and I saw something in his eyes which made the veins stand out on the back of my clenched fists. It was just then that I realized how understanding a person the Colonel really was. He touched me on the arm.

'Don't forget, Edmund,' he enjoined, 'that we are on a rest cure here. I'd let other people alone for a bit, if I were you.'

I tried to cool down and tell myself that it was the only thing to do, but all the same I got it in my mind that I meant to say a few words to Bessie before she left, and I managed that all right. After they had taken their poor little collection—it couldn't have amounted to more than a hundred francs, and half of that was mine—Ned and Mulholland went off to get a whisky-and-soda.

I stood in the portico of the hotel with Bessie, and I drew her across the avenue, away from the entrance altogether. Below us, the lights of the little houses dotted about in the valley were twinkling little fire-flies set in a dusky violet mantle, and a soft breeze swept up which seemed somehow to remind one of mimosa and peach blossom. Her eyes grew larger as she looked away into the shadows, and for a moment she seemed to forget. I'd like to have left her like that but the time was short.

'Bessie,' I whispered, 'I've said a few plain words to Ned and offended him. Now I am going to say a few to you.'

She started a little but she made no effort to stop me.

'I'll admit it's no concern of mine,' I went on, 'but the world would be a cold place if we only looked after our own affairs. That fellow Mulholland is a brute. If I were you, I wouldn't have him travelling around with you both.'

She clutched at ray arm.

'If only I could get rid of him! If only he would go!' she murmured, looking nervously over her shoulder.

'Why don't you tell him so, then?' I suggested. 'We've only a minute or two here, Bessie. You and I have been pals in a small way but we may never meet again, and you know very well what Mulholland's after. Why don't you cut him out altogether, and have done with it?'

She shivered all over and I felt that my words must have sounded a trifle crude, even when she remembered that we had only seconds to spare.

'You're young married people, you and your husband,' I reminded her. 'Don't you go and make the mistake of your life just because a brute like that has money to throw about on motor-cars and champagne, and to give you what he calls a good time. You're a good little woman at heart, I know, and there isn't much fun in these things, believe me.'

'Don't be foolish,' she interrupted breathlessly.'Can't you see that he's got hold of Ned? Ned gambles and gambles all the time, gambles away all the money we earn, and then he borrows more from Mulholland. He hasn't been used to living simply, either, and he won't. So it's been going on, ever since we left the steamer. He owes Mr. Mulholland now several thousand francs, and Mulholland doesn't mind. He simply waits.'

'You let him wait,' I told her emphatically.'He's taking his own risk. You haven't encouraged him?'

'Never for one moment,' she declared passionately.

'That's all right, then,' I continued. 'You keep your head up. Let him understand that he's doing you no kindness in lending your husband money.'

'He talks,' she went on nervously, 'of sending Ned to
London and making him a partner in one of his enterprises—'

'Cut it right out,' I interrupted.'Don't let Ned listen to it. If he doesn't see what the beast wants, send him to me. And as regards any money Ned's had from Mulholland, if that will rid you of him once and for all, it's yours for the asking. I shall be here for another week, and at Baring Brothers, London, at any time. . . . Don't answer. They're coming out.'

She flashed one wonderful look at me. Then we turned back to where the automobile was waiting. Mulholland, with a freshly-lit cigar in his mouth, scowled at us as he pushed forward and handed her in.

'You ride outside with the chauffeur chap, Ned,' he directed. 'I'll take care of the little lady in here.'

They drove off. I saw her shrink as far as possible into her corner, and her pathetic little look at parting haunted me. Then they vanished into the darkness.

It was just a queer little episode of real life, it seemed to me, life with a very simple but a very disturbing situation. The Colonel and I talked of it for a few minutes as we smoked a cigar out on the front before going to bed.

'It's the human triangle in its worst possible form,' was the Colonel's verdict. 'No room for you to butt in there, Edmund, my boy.'

I looked down the starlit valley towards the sea. There were some curious thoughts forming in my brain.

'Unless,' I murmured, 'the triangle is a little more complex than appears upon the surface.'


I am perfectly convinced that the Colonel was sincere when he pointed out that there was no room for our intervention in the matter of that triangle, but it is a curious thing that when, after a restless night, I knocked a little shamefacedly at his door about seven o'clock on the following morning, I found him, also, dressed and standing out on his balcony looking down towards Cannes with a queer expression in his face.

'You're early this morning, Colonel,' I remarked.

'So are you,' he replied.

We looked at one another for a moment. Then he glanced over the edge of the balcony. My car was just coming round to the door.

'We'd better have a cup of coffee first,' he said.

I drew a little sigh of relief.

'Right you are. We'll have it together downstairs,' I suggested. 'They serve it quicker there.'

We drove down to Cannes at a pretty good pace. On the way we talked the matter out thoroughly, but we agreed that there wasn't much to be done except in the obvious manner. At about eleven o'clock I was seated in an armchair in Ned's bedroom. Below, the Colonel was walking up and down in the garden with Bessie. Ned wasn't by any means a pleasant sight, and I should gather that he had been drunk on the night before.

'Nice time to come and pay calls, this,' he grumbled, with a very feeble attempt at good humour. 'I can't think how they let you up.'

'It's eleven o'clock,' I answered, 'and you ought to be out on the front like everybody else. Get up and have your bath, I'll wait here.'

He obeyed me sleepily and presently he reappeared, looking a little more like himself. There was about him still, however, an air of half-suppressed hostility. I could see that in his way he guessed at what I had come for, and obviously resented it.

'Ned Kinsey,' I began, 'I suppose you know that you are making a blithering idiot of yourself?'

'If I am,' he replied, 'I'm doing it because I choose to.'

'Further,' I went on, 'you are making a very unhappy woman of Bessie.'

'You're a liar!' he exclaimed.

'I'm nothing of the sort and you know it,' I told him pleasantly.'I'm not here to quarrel with you and you won't get me to. I am here to rid you and Bessie of that brute Mulholland, if I can.'

'Do you know that you are talking of my friend?' he protested angrily.

'Friend be damned!' I answered. 'That man's no one's friend, not even his own. He's got to go, old chap, so you may as well make up your mind to it. You've borrowed money from him. Well, I've got my chequebook with me and a credit here in Cannes. Let's pay him off and have a litde lunch together, you and I and Bessie. Maybe we could hit upon some scheme a litde better than this show business for you.'

'You mean well, Edmund,' he said, his voice trembling a little, 'but it's damned impertinent of you, you know, and it isn't any good. Mulholland's all right. You don't understand him, that's all.'

'Bessie hates the fellow,' I continued.'That ought to be enough for you. No man has the right to inflict the society of an unclean beast like that upon any decent woman—least of all his wife.'

He tried to whip himself into a temper but he only whimpered. I could see he was sadly broken up and as near hysterics as a man can come.

'You're all wrong,' he declared; 'and, anyway, Mulholland's my friend.'

'Cut it out!' I exclaimed impatiently.'You and I were both reasonably brought up, Ned, and we know where that sort of creature belongs. Been a bit weak, eh? It's the sort of scrape a lot of us get into. Look here, I'm not a poor man. Let's chuck this. If it's ten, thirty, fifty, thousand dollars, here you are. Wipe him out.'

Then all of a sudden a change came over Ned. He turned white and he began to shiver.

'Edmund,' he faltered, 'if you offered me a hundred thousand I couldn't get rid of Mulholland.'

I looked steadfastly at him. His eyes fell before mine. I saw his face twitch.

'What is it you've done?' I demanded.

'I've forged the governor's name to a draft. He's got it,' Ned declared, in a broken tone.

'Then why the mischief didn't you say so at first and save all this worry! How much?'

'It's only five thousand dollars,' Ned went on, looking up again.'Of course, I was the biggest fool that ever stepped. It was one night when I was half on, and he told me that I could have it back directly the luck turned and I began to win. He'd been letting me have plenty of money all the time. The next morning I was scared. I tried to get it back. I could even have raised some money towards it, but he wouldn't listen to me. He's got it and he means to keep it.'

'What for?' I asked grimly. 'What's his price?'

'God only knows!' Ned muttered.

I got up suddenly. I wasn't going to sit there and lose my temper.

'Mulholland is staying in the hotel, isn't he?' I inquired.

Ned nodded and I picked up my hat and gloves.

'Very well,' I said.'I will come and see you later....'


I ran Mr. Mulholland to earth in the bar, amongst a choice few of his acquaintances. I touched him on the shoulder, and although he recognized me with something which was more like a scowl than a greeting, he consented to accompany me into a corner.

'What,' I asked him, 'is your price for that forged draft of Ned's?'

He looked at me as a bully would look. His expletives were lurid. Divested of them, his reply merely indicated a desire to know what concern it was of mine.

'I'm Ned's friend,' I told him.'We are of the same order of human beings and we've got to stand by one another when there's anything to be done with a creature like you. You'll part with that draft in return for a cheque for the money you've received, or I'll hammer the life out of you.'

He grinned maliciously.

'The draft,' he said, 'is deposited in my bank at Monte Carlo. You can go through my pockets if you like.'

I felt that the man was telling the truth.

'Will you give me your promise,' I persisted, 'to hand it over in return for the cash?'

He stood up, and there was the wickedest look in his face I have ever yet seen on any human being's.

'When I've got what I want,' he answered.

That was, in a way, the moment of my life. Without a doubt he had calculated upon feeling the weight of my arm and the subsequent trouble, for there were a dozen of his friends in the room, as tough-looking a lot as ever I set eyes upon. I felt myself trembling in every limb but I never even clenched my fist.

'Twice the face value wouldn't induce you to change your mind, I suppose?' I asked him very quiedy.

'Nor five times,' he assured me viciously.

I got up, pushed the table on one side, walked out and left him. I made my way into the gardens, where the Colonel was seated on a bench, talking to Bessie. He was holding her hand and I could see that there were tears in her eyes. They both looked round at me eagerly.

'I've seen Ned,' I announced. 'Mulholland's got hold of some paper of his that might mean trouble.'

The colour stole from Bessie's cheeks. I knew very well that she understood.

'He won't sell it,' I went on.'Very well. This is my scheme. The Colonel and I aren't going to leave you to be worried to death here. We'll adopt you till these men come to their senses. Come back to Grasse and stay with us. You'll be safe enough.'

'And very welcome, my dear young lady,' the Colonel promised. 'It will give us an opportunity to come to some arrangement with your husband and this fellow Mulholland.'

She shook her head.

'I can't do that,' she said.'Ned wants me all the
time. He doesn't take care of himself as he ought and
I have to look after him. If I were to leave him alone
with Mulholland—'

She shivered a little and did not finish her sentence. We tried to reason with her but it was useless. She made us even see that our own scheme was scarcely practical.

'How long do you intend to stay here?' I asked.

'We leave for Hyères either to-day or to-morrow,' she replied.'I am not sure which—I think to-day.'

'And do you honestly think there's nothing more that we can do?'

Her eyes filled with tears.

'There is absolutely nothing to be done,' she sighed. 'My only hope is that he—that Mr. Mulholland—will get ured of both of us soon and leave us alone. . . . Listen. Ned is calling me now.'

We looked up towards the hotel. Ned was leaning out of one of the windows, beckoning. She rose reluctantly to her feet and held out both her hands to us.

'You have been so kind,' she said simply. 'Thank you both. And—I shan't forget,' she added, looking the Colonel in the eyes.

She left us there and we walked disconsolately away. We talked the matter over from every point of view, but it was very hard indeed to hit upon any practical scheme which would bring help to Bessie. We took a table for luncheon in the Casino but neither of us had very much appetite. Our interest in the excellent meal which was served us, and in our surroundings, was absolutely negligible until we were suddenly confronted with a coincidence.

Mr. Mulholland appeared, making his objectionable way down the stairs, followed by Bessie and her husband. Our greeting all round was a little strained. Mr. Mulholland especially seemed to resent our presence. I made up my mind, however, to seize any opportunity that this meeting might present, and I talked to the little party occasionally from my place.

'When are you off, Ned?' I asked, leaning a little on one side and addressing my question to both him and Bessie.

'To-day,' she replied.

'What, are you off to Hyères this aftenoon?' I exclaimed.

She looked straight at me, and if ever there was despair written in a woman's face, it was written in hers.

'We are starting directly after lunch,' she said.'I am going with Mr. Mulholland in his car, and Ned is coming on by the train with the luggage.'

Mulholland moved his chair a little, interposing his person between Bessie and me. He leaned forward and addressed her in a significant undertone. The Colonel and I finished our lunch almost in silence and walked dejectedly outside. In front, waiting for us, was my car, and next to it another two-seater. I regarded the latter gloomily.

'The beast is going to drive her himself,' I muttered.

The Colonel sighed.

'I'm afraid we have done all we can, Edmund,' he remarked. 'We'd better get back to Grasse and let them work out their own destiny. I am sorry for the little woman.'

They came out almost at that moment. She was wearing a long motoring coat and veil. Mr. Mulholland had lit a large cigar and was drawing on his gloves.

'We'll be there before you, Ned, old fellow,' he declared confidently. 'You bring the luggage along, and don't miss your train,' he added significantly. 'I'll look after Bessie.'

He pushed his way insolently down the steps, took the driving-seat and held up the rug for his companion. I saw a sudden shade come into Ned's face.

'Where's the chauffeur riding?' he asked quickly.

'I'm not taking him,' Mulholland replied, looking Ned straight in the eyes.'I hate a dicky seat, going round those corners, and I can manage the car all right.'

Ned stood, for a moment, irresolute. For the first time I saw gleams of hope. Ned was, at any rate, not utterly lost. Bessie, too, seized upon the hope.

'Don't you think he had better come?' she said anxiously.'I have no doubt Mr. Mulholland is very careful but I should feel much safer with a chauffeur behind.'

Mulholland laughed noisily.

'I've made my own plans,' he announced. 'Here, George.'

The chauffeur went round to the other side of the car. Mulholland gave him some instructions and handed him a telegram. Then he slipped in his clutch.

'So long!' he called out.'Take care of yourself, Ned, and don't go and miss that last train.'

The car glided away. It seemed to me that Mulholland's last glance behind was one of evil triumph. Bessie never looked at us at all. Her head seemed to have sunk a little forward and she had lowered her veil. We watched them pass out of sight. Then I went up to Ned.

'What time does your train go?' I asked.

'Four o'clock,' he replied.

I looked towards the hills over which the motorists must pass, and then looked back at Ned.

'I suppose this is good-bye,' I said; 'but listen here. Of all the fools that ever walked this earth, Ned Kinsey, I think you are the greatest!'

'Why?' he demanded uneasily.

I moved my head towards the hills.

'You know,' I told him.

I left him there and moved towards the car. It is probable that, but for a fluke, the Colonel and I would have taken our places, motored back to Grasse and many things might have happened differently, but as I went I passed Mulholland's chauffeur, and I saw him with the open telegraph form in his hand, grinning. I stopped short. I was almost by the side of the fellow, and the four words of the message were there, clear and distinct, I touched him on the arm.

'Are you Mr. Mulholland's chauffeur,' I inquired.

'Yes, sir,' he replied, taken by surprise.

I held out my hand and took the telegram from his open fingers before he could protest.

'There is something I think Mr. Mulholland meant to add to this,' I remarked. 'Wait a moment, will you?'

The man acquiesced without a moment's hesitation, and I took the telegram back to where Ned was standing with his eyes still fixed upon the mountain road.

'Ned,' I said, 'you haven't believed my warnings. This is the telegram which Mulholland has just handed to his chauffeur. Read it.'

I held it out. We read it together. It was addressed to the St. George's Hotel, San Raphael:


TWO ROOMS TO-NIGHT. MULHOLLAND.

'San Raphael,' I told him, 'is half-way to Hyères.'

The man in Ned had taken a little reaching, but thank heaven that it blazed out at last. His lips came firmly together, his face became suddenly the face of a man.

'Where can I hire a car?' he demanded.

'There's mine right here,' I replied, pointing below.'The Colonel and I will go with you. If we don't catch them, we'll come to San Raphael before night. What about your luggage?'

'The luggage can go to hell!' Ned muttered.

I handed back the telegram to the chauffeur. We all three entered my car and I took the wheel.

'Colonel,' I asked, 'do you mind a long run?'

'What is is?' he inquired.

I told him in a few whispered words. His face grew set and stern. He muttered something under his breath which, for one who eschewed profanity, was fairly expressive.

'I am with you, Edmund,' he declared. 'Have we plenty of petrol?'

'Full up, and three spare tins,' I answered.'Give me plenty of room at the wheel, you fellows.'

We were blocked all through Cannes, and we were scarcely clear away on the sea road before we found the tyre of one of our hind wheels punctured. We got the other wheel on in something under four minutes and we started away again on our chase. Higher and higher we raced round the spiral road. Cannes soon lay like a phantom city, far away behind. The sun sank behind the mountains and the air grew colder. Still, though the marks of an automobile were always in front of us, we saw nothing of it. It was almost impossible to get up any pace but we took our risks, and there wasn't one of the three of us who even started as we more than once shaved the side of the precipice.

Nevertheless, the lights were coming out below and the faint dusky twilight was falling when at last we came tearing around an abrupt bend and saw a car not fifty yards ahead. I jammed on my brakes. It was the car we had been pursuing right enough, but at first it looked as though it were empty in the middle of the road.

We ran to within a few yards of it and then all three jumped out. Ned tore like a madman to the side of the road, where Bessie was lying, her arms stretched out, her hat fallen a little away. I paused to look at the crumpled-up figure in the car. What did it all mean? What manner of tragedy was this? There had been no accident—the engine of the car, in fact, was still beating softly—but Mulholland was a dead man, if ever I had seen one, and Bessie was lying white and still by the roadside. In those first few seconds I must admit that it was the Colonel who grasped things.

'She's shot him, Edmund!' he cried. 'Look!'

Then I saw the place where the bullet had entered Mulholland's body, close to his shoulder. There were cartridges scattered about in the bottom of the car. To my horror I saw that her fingers were still gripping a small revolver. We stood like dummies, Ned and I. The Colonel seemed to grow larger. He stood in the middle of the road and he looked in every direction.

'This has only just happened,' he said. 'There is no one in sight. Touch nothing till I tell you.'

He bent over Bessie's prostrate body, felt her heart for a moment and gently took the revolver from her hand. He held it up—one barrel had been discharged. Quickly he picked up another cartridge from the bottom of the car, slipped it into the empty place and thrust the revolver into the pocket of her coat. Then he bent once more over Mulholland, and, stepping gingerly to the side of the road, looked down. It was the steepest place we had yet encountered, and the sheer fall to where a little brook was trickling over the stones below must have been three or four hundred feet. He came back and stood thinking for a moment.

'The man is stone dead,' he announced.

I saw Ned shiver, but for my own part I never flinched. I believe that I was even glad.

'Will you both of you do what I think best?' the Colonel continued.

We did not hesitate for a moment. The Colonel bent over the car.

'Hold down the clutch and put her in first speed,' he directed. 'Turn the steering handle—so. Now let her go.'

I obeyed, and in another moment the car moved forward. There was one second's expectancy, a crashing of stones and bracken, then over the side it went. The Colonel had buttoned the water-proof apron across the front. We watched the car turn over and over until a shapeless mass crashed against the rocks at the bottom. The Colonel lifted his hat.

'May God have mercy upon him!' he murmured softly.

I was beginning to wake up.

'The bullet wound!' I reminded him—'they'll find that.'

The Colonel shook his head.'I think not,' he said gravely.

He left us then and devoted his attention to Bessie. She had moved once or twice and in a few minutes she stirred uneasily and sat up. Even now that the colour was streaming back into her cheeks, the terror came with it. She clutched at me and clutched at the Colonel. Then she saw Ned and began to sob. She looked all around and gazed almost fearfully at the spot in the empty road where the car had stood.

'Tell me,' she begged, 'tell me at once what happened. I was asleep and I felt his arms! Oh—tell me!' she shrieked.

'We can only surmise,' the Colonel replied.'We followed you because after your departure we were able to convince your husband that he had done an unwise thing in trusting you with Mr. Mulholland. There are signs in the road as though the car had skidded—as though Mr. Mulholland, perhaps, had released one hand from the steering wheel. At any rate, the car is lying at the bottom of the precipice and Mulholland with it, and we found you just at the edge.'

She stared at the Colonel and there was a strange, struggling light in her eyes.

'I was asleep,' she murmured.'I was tired out and I fell asleep. Tell me, did I dream things?... Tell me!'

She suddenly snatched at her pocket and tore out the revolver.

'I shot him,' she cried, 'when he put out his arms! Tell me, did I kill him?'

The Colonel smiled reassuringly. There was never a lie so splendidly told.

'I think,' he said, 'that you must have been dreaming when the accident happened.'

'But I—I thought I shot him,' she persisted.

He bent over the revolver and showed her, with a little smile, the six chambers. She stared at them and began to sob.

'It was all a dream, then—a dream!' she faltered.

'Except that Mr. Mulholland and the car have gone over the precipice, 'the Colonel said gravely. 'If you feel strong enough, I think we ought to try to make our way to the next village. We will send a search party down.'

She stood up without assistance. Her husband's arm was around her. The Colonel and I moved off together.

'Do you think this will go through, Colonel?' I whispered.

'I believe so,' he replied.

The Colonel knew what he was talking about.

Mulholland's body was found pinned under the remains of the car and crushed out of all recognition. A parapet has been erected upon the spot—admittedly a dangerous one—where the car commenced its mad descent. Sometimes the peasants passing along the road point downwards, speak of the terrible motor accident and of the Englishman whose body is buried in the little churchyard below. Bessie's recollections are only of a hideous dream.</story>