<story title="THE INJURED HUSBAND" date="1915">
WE were crossing the road on our way to the third tee when my partner suddenly stopped short and gazed down the road. She was a very attractive little lady, fluffy-haired, blue-eyed, and with the daintiest little figure in the world. She had simple and appealing ways and she played a very good game of golf. She was not a favourite with the ladies in the hotel.

'Whatever is that, Mr. Martin?' she inquired.

There were about a dozen people and twenty caddie boys standing around something which was lying close to the hedge.

'Seems like a small crowd,' I remarked. 'Let's see what's doing.'

On our way we met the Colonel. His face was as white as chalk and his bony little knees were shaking together. He held out his hand and stopped us.

'I wouldn't go up there, if I were you,' he advised me. 'Take Mrs. Foster-Howes back at once,' he added, under his breath.

'What is it, anyway?' I asked.

He tried to speak, but his voice was half choked. He was one of the softest-hearted men I ever met.

'A man—been murdered, they say. They have dragged him on one side and they are waiting for the mayor.'

Mrs. Foster-Howes gave a little scream. She leaned up against me, and I supported her with my arm. Through the hedge I could see some of the old cats from the hotel looking at us.

'Take me back at once, please,' she murmured.

I obeyed, of course. As soon as we were in the next field she sank down upon the bench.

'You can go and find out what it is all about and come back and tell me,' she directed, letting go my hand as though with reluctance. 'I know you want to.'

I wasn't telling any unnecessary lies, so I didn't deny it. All the same, when I got there it wasn't a pleasant sight. The man was stretched out upon his back and the greater portion of him was covered by a rug. I have a pretty good nerve but I don't believe in harrowing details. Therefore, all I'll say is that he'd been killed by a blow on the head. By his side was a broken bicycle. On the other side of the road was another bicycle, lying just where it had fallen. A gendarme was keeping guard over this, and another was keeping the people back.

'Nasty awkward business, this,' I remarked to the latter, feeling in my pocket. 'When did it happen?'

The gendarme looked at me stolidly.

'Monsieur?'

I remembered then that I was in a heathen country and brought out my phrase-book. Little Jenkinson, however, a lawyer fellow who was staying at the hotel and who had been chattering like a monkey to some of the bystanders, was full of particulars.

'They found him in the ditch only an hour ago,' he told me. 'His name is Philippe Moule and he lives at Bormes. They say he had been in Hyères late last night, gambling. This must have been done on the way home.'

'Any clue?' I asked.

'The place reeks with them,' Jenkinson replied. 'There's the other man's bicycle lying over there, a cap, a cigarette-case, and this poor fellow's pockets are turned out. They say that he had a lot of money with him, which he was showing at the café. Probably someone followed him out.'

I made my way back to where Mrs. Foster-Howes was waiting for me. She clasped at my hand and breathed a little sigh of contentment at my return.

'I have been so nervous,' she confessed. 'Tell me about it!'

'It's just an ordinary sort of crime,' I answered, 'common enough in these parts, they tell me. The man's dead, and the fellow who did it seems to have given himself away completely. He's left his bicycle in the ditch and his cap and cigarette-case in the road.'

She shivered and stood up.

'I am so sensitive,' she murmured. 'It is silly of me, isn't it?'

'Not at all,' I protested. 'Women ought to be like that. Would you like to go on with our game or should we walk home?'

'I think I'd like to go on,' she decided. 'We can get away now.'

We played the next few holes and were on our way to the fifth, where a lot of peasants were working on the flower-farm. My partner played a most unusual shot for her, a badly sliced one, which rested only about a foot from the boundary. Our ways parted, as I had hit rather a long ball with a slight pull.

'Don't wait while I play,' she called out. 'We are keeping them waiting.'

I nodded and strolled off. Presently, however—I don't know why—I turned my head. I suppose I was curious to see Mrs. Foster-Howes play her stroke—it couldn't have been for any other reason. Yet at the precise moment I looked around, I felt almost certain that I saw one of the peasants on the edge of the field, and, standing close to Mrs. Foster-Howes, throw what seemed to be a piece of paper just in front of her. She played her shot, a very correct one, on to the green, and moved forward. Suddenly she stooped down and stretched out her hand. I went on to my ball, missed my shot, fluffed my next, gave up the hole and joined her on the green.

'Your hole,' I said. 'That makes you one up.'

She looked at me a little questioningly. I wasn't going to say anything, however. After we had driven off the next tee, she came to me.

'Did you see me pick something up just now?' she asked, looking up at me.

'I did,' I answered. 'It was something which one of those men had dropped.'

She passed her hand for a moment through my arm—a delightful little way she had when we were walking together and comparatively unobserved.

'Do let me tell you about it,' she begged.

'Of course!' I assented. 'Go right ahead.'

'It's one of those men there—I think he is the owner of the farm—but every time I pass he comes up and tries to talk to me. Of course, I haven't taken it seriously, but to-day he dropped a note and stood watching me. I didn't mean to pick it up, but I thought perhaps it might have his name on, and I would get you or someone to either write him or go and see him. It is so hard for a woman who is quite alone,' she concluded a little pathetically.

I stopped short.

'Give me the note,' I suggested, 'and show me the man, and I'll make an end of him.'

'You silly person,' she laughed. 'You forget that you couldn't make him understand. You'd have to fetch out that awful phrase-book of yours!'

'I'd make him understand fast enough,' I answered grimly. 'There's a sort of Volapük I can use as well as most men. You'd better let me have the note.'

She shook her head.

'Not this time,' she said. 'If he annoys me again, I shall come to you. It is so nice,' she added softly, 'to believe that there is someone who would be kind and help if one were in trouble.'

I made some sort of foolish reply and we went on for some distance. Suddenly she clutched at the folds of her blouse and stopped short.

'Heavens!' she cried. 'I've lost the note!'

She stood feeling herself all over, feeling in her pockets, and her face grew whiter and whiter. We let the couple behind pass us while we retraced our steps.

'Does it matter much?' I asked her.

'Of course it does,' she replied sharply. 'Supposing it were picked up and people knew it was for me! The women at the hotel are bad enough as it is. Do find it—please find it, Mr. Martin.'

We did our best, caddies and all. I offered five francs reward, and there wasn't an inch of those two fields that we didn't go over. It was no use, however. The note seemed to have disappeared.

'Must have got down your clothes, somehow or other,' I told her. 'If you like, we'll walk back to the clubhouse and then you can have a proper search.'

She agreed at once and we walked slowly back, she keeping her eyes on the ground all the time to see if she dropped it. When we arrived at the club-house, she hurried into the ladies' dressing-room and was gone for almost half an hour. She came out shaking her head and looking a good deal more worried, I thought, than the occasion called for.

'I must have dropped it,' she announced. 'I am going back. Don't you bother to come unless you like.'

Of course I went, though I felt it wasn't much use. We searched for another hour and finally returned to the hotel. I tried hard to get her to point out the man, but she refused to do anything of the sort. On our way up the steep path to the hotel she clung to me almost nervously.

'I don't know what is the matter with me this morning,' she sighed. 'I don't think I ever felt so friendless and so terrified.'

'Look here,' I said, patting her hand, 'don't you be
a silly little woman. You've nothing to be terrified
about, and as to being friendless—well, we've only
known one another three or four days, but—'

'You really are sincere?' she asked, looking up at me with her big blue eyes full open. 'You mean it?'

'Of course,' I assured her. 'You can try me as soon as you like.'

She gave a little sigh as though of relief, and let go my arm reluctantly. We were by the entrance to the hotel now and a good many people were looking at us.

'We'll have coffee together after lunch, won't we?' she begged. 'I am going to hurry in now and search myself once more.'

I lit a cigar and walked up to where the Colonel was sitting with his sister. Lady Chalmont laid down her knitting and shook her head at me sternly. She was a very charming person and the image of her brother.

'Young man,' she declared, 'you are flirting.'

'Is that so?' I replied. 'Well, she's a nice little woman, anyway.'

'Is she?' Lady Chalmont murmured.

'Just a little shy,' I went on, 'rather timid until she gets used to you. That's why she makes so few friends. She waits always for other people to make the advances.'

'What a judge of character you are, Mr. Martin!' Lady Chalmont sighed.

'One of my hobbies,' I assented.

'Is there,' Lady Chalmont asked, her fingers suddenly idle and her eyes lifted to the skies, 'a Mr. Foster-Howes?'

'Something to do with one of the Services—retired from the Navy, I believe,' I told her. 'He doesn't care about the Riviera. Rather an unsympathetic brute, I should think.'

'Some people need so much sympathy,' she observed. 'You take care, young man. These shy ladies with unsympathetic husbands, who stay in large hotels and wear remarkably pretty clothes, are very amenable to kindness.'

'There's some sort of trouble,' I replied cheerfully, 'I am always looking for. Just one dry one before luncheon, Colonel,' I suggested, passing my arm through his.

He tried to shake his head, and glanced tentatively at his sister.

'Don't be silly, Henry I' she exclaimed. 'If you can't take a cocktail before lunch at your time of life and with your constitution, you ought to be ashamed of yourself. Give the boy some good advice while you are drinking it.'

We made our way to the American bar and the Colonel did his best to carry out his sister's instructions.

'Young man,' he said, with his eyes fixed upon the shaker, 'you must be used to American hotels, even if you are a stranger on this side, and you know very well that the principal amusement at a place like this is flirtation. What my sister was trying to make you understand, though, was that there are phases of it sometimes a little dangerous for a young man—er—in your position.'

'You don't say!' I murmured, raising my glass. 'Put me wise.'

'What I mean to point out,' the Colonel continued, as he sipped his cocktail, 'is that a little grass-widow like Mrs. Foster-Howes is a much more dangerous lady to play around with than you might think, judging her superficially. What should you do, for instance, if, in reply to one of your gallant speeches, she were suddenly to throw herself into your arms and declare that in you alone she found the sympathy she had been looking for all her life, and beg you to take her—well, take her anywhere?'

I set down my glass and made signs to the bar-keeper.

'What's that, Colonel?' I demanded.

'It's the sort of position you might find yourself in at any moment,' he assured me earnestly. 'I know that mild, florid type, with the silk stockings and melting eyes. They stick like leeches.'

I winked at him solemnly.

'I bet you've had a bit of experience, Colonel!' I said. 'I bet you have a look in yourself now and then, when your sister isn't along.'

The Colonel evaded the point, muttering something about its being altogether irrelevant. I noticed, however, that he had drawn himself up a little and was twirling his scanty grey moustache.

'We are talking entirely about yourself at the present moment,' he reminded me. 'From the little I know of you, I should say that you had a heaven-bestowed gift for getting out of scrapes, but, believe me, in the hands of a woman like Mrs. Foster-Howes, if she meant business you wouldn't have a chance.'

The luncheon gong sounded and I was instantly conscious of a remarkable appetite. I took the Colonel by the arm and led him upstairs.

'Colonel,' I said, 'I understand the situation entirely. I am being warned by my kindly friend and his sister, steeped to the finger-tips, both of them, with experience of the world. I am a foolish young man whose head is being turned by a fluffy-haired, designing widowette. You can make your mind easy and make your sister's mind easy, too—and listen. If there's any trouble ahead, you put your money on the greenhorn.'


That afternoon I spent in an exceedingly pleasant and interesting manner. Soon after luncheon I walked into Hyères with Jenkinson, who told me all the news of the tragedy in the golf course lane, so far as was known, It seemed that the murdered man was a widower, living in Bormes. He had been into Hyères early that morning to receive the last instalment of a legacy of forty thousand francs, which had been paid over to him at the office of an avocat in the place.

Notwithstanding many warnings, he had spent the whole of the rest of the day in treating his friends, or indeed anyone whom he happened to meet, at the various cafés. He had finished the evening at the Café de Coq d'Or, an establishment in the old portion of the city, which he had left on his bicycle at about midnight, with the remains of his legacy in his pocket. He had been found early in the morning with a bullet wound through his head, and also the marks of a blow which had completely fractured the skull.

The whole affair seemed, in its way, sordid enough, the motive for the crime obvious, the murderer glaringly apparent. A man name Paul Dérode, between whom and the dead man there had always been bad blood, had been his companion for the last two hours in the café, and had more than once tried to possess himself of one of the bundles of notes which Moule was freely flourishing about. He had followed the latter out after his final departure from the café, and it was his bicycle which was found broken in the hedge near the scene of the murder, his cap and cigarette-case in the road. Furthermore, he had disappeared.

'The only point about the affair worthy of comment,' Jenkinson concluded, after he had finished his very lucid statement, 'is, why did this fellow Paul commit the crime twice over? Either the bullet wound or the blow must have killed the man instantly.'

'Inartistic but thorough,' I observed. 'Let us go and find the café.'

Jenkinson consented eagerly. On the way he talked to me a good deal of the various criminal cases in which he had been mixed up. The café was packed, but we were fortunate enough to find a table and a garrulous waiter, who, in consideration of a five-franc piece, answered a good many questions which I got Jenkinson to put to him.

'Bit morbid yourself, aren't you?' the latter remarked, as we sipped our vermouth. 'You seem to be taking a tremendous interest in the details of a thing we already know all about—where they left their bicycles, and who else was here, and all that sort of thing.'

'To tell you the truth,' I confided, 'this place bores me some, and anything out of the common gives one a sort of stir-up. I'm going to walk home.'

'I am for the Casino,' Jenkinson replied.

We parted a few minutes later, and I walked home along the road instead of by the hills. I took the exact route pursued by the dead man and his murderer, until I arrived at the spot where the crime occurred. Then I passed on to the golf course and loitered about for a time by the side of the violet farm.

The man whom I had recognized as having dropped the note before Mrs. Foster-Howes was working nearest me. I stood and watched him for some minutes. Then I turned back and retraced my steps to the hotel. I found that it was time to change for dinner and made my way at once to my room. In the act of taking off my boots I stopped short. There was something in the turned-up portion of my trousers. I stooped down and drew it out. It was a little scrap of folded-up paper.

I was on the point of throwing it away when I realized what it was. Then I laid it down upon the dressing-table. It was, without a doubt, the note which the peasant in the field had dropped before Mrs. Foster-Howes during the morning.

Now this is a point in the story where the Colonel would have been no use. He would have taken that scrap of paper back to Mrs. Foster-Howes, holding it as far away as possible from him, and with his head turned up to the skies. I did nothing of the sort. I didn't look at it, because I wasn't quite prepared to go that far, but I folded it up and placed it in my pocket-book, and it was there later on when I went down to dinner.


I am afraid I must here confess that matters between Mrs. Foster-Howes and myself progressed. We spent the greater part of that evening and the few succeeding days together. We provided the whole of the hotel with abundant subject for gossip, not that they ever needed it, but the novelty of having something to talk about with a solid foundation almost turned their heads.

On the fifth day I walked up with the Colonel from an early round of golf, to find the little crowd of hotel guests, who usually spent the latter part of the morning basking in the sunshine of the piazza, standing about in groups and talking with the utmost animation. I noticed, also, that Mrs. Foster-Howes was not in her accustomed seat waiting for me, and that all eyes were turned in our direction as we approached. Lady Chalmont, with her knitting in her hand, left her seat and came rapidly down the steps towards us.

'Have you heard the news?' she asked, her eyes fixed severely upon me. 'You have not, of course. Mr. Foster-Howes has come out from England unexpectedly. His wife has gone down to the station to meet him.'

The news really gave me a big throb but I affected an air of unconcern.

'Well, now, that's quite interesting,' I declared. 'The poor little woman has been kind of lonely out here. I shall be curious to meet her husband.'

Lady Chalmont coughed and looked at me.

'Lonely, indeed!' she exclaimed witheringly. 'Of all the brazen young men I ever met! Well, anyhow, you are in for trouble now,' she went on. 'They are all saying that someone has sent him an anonymous letter. Mrs. Foster-Howes went off to meet him shivering with fear.'

'People will do such ill-natured things,' I said cheerfully. 'However, we'll soon set all that right, believe me.'

'I hope you may, my boy,' the Colonel remarked grimly. 'Seems to me you'll soon have an opportunity, for here they come.'

We stood and watched the little victoria drive up. I flatter myself that nothing in my appearance betrayed any perturbation I might have felt. Mr. Foster-Howes was dark, clean-shaven, and with an appearance which was quite in keeping with his profession as a naval man. The behaviour of the two, as they descended from the carriage, was ominous. It was evident that Mrs. Foster-Howes had been crying. Her husband, without assisting her to alight, strode quickly into the hotel and vanished in the office. I at once stepped forward.

'My dear Blanche!—' I began.

She pushed me away. Her eyes were fixed upon the door through which her husband had disappeared. She certainly did seem to be in a state almost of collapse.

'Don't,' she begged, in a frightened tone. 'Please don't talk to me just now. I don't want anyone to speak to me. My husband is simply furious. Someone has sent him an anonymous letter from here and told him the most abominable things about you and me. Please leave me quite alone and keep out of the way as much as you can.'

'Come now, that's too bad,' I declared, trying to soothe her by my tone and manner. 'Don't you fret about it, though. He'll soon calm down.'

We all went in to luncheon a few minutes later, and, as was as our frequent custom, I joined the Colonel and Lady Chalmont at their table. Mr. and Mrs. Foster-Howes sat quite near us, and we were able to observe the fact that throughout the meal the former maintained his attitude of grim anger. He scarcely spoke to his wife and her distress was apparent to everyone.

'That's your fault, young man,' Lady Chalmont whispered reproachfully, leaning across the table towards me. 'You Lothario!'

'The fellow needs a lesson,' I muttered.

'I shouldn't be surprised,' the Colonel remarked, 'if you weren't offered an opportunity of giving him one! If you take my advice, you'll go for a long motor-ride this afternoon.'

I decided, however, to face the music, and after luncheon we lounged about outside, taking our coffee in the sunshine, From the place where we were sitting I saw Mrs. Foster-Howes escape from her husband and disappear into the writing-room. She sat there for some moments with a pen in her hand and her eyes fixed upon the door. Then she wrote a few lines quickly, dashed the sheet of paper into an envelope and scrawled an address upon it.

Looking furtively about her, she passed into the lounge and vanished from my view, reappearing, however, a moment or two later, through the entrance to the hotel, only a few yards away from us. She paused there for a moment, looking around. Then she stepped hurriedly forward towards the concierge, who had been talking to the driver of the omnibus. Before she could reach him, however, her husband suddenly issued from the hotel and caught her up.

In full view of at least a score of people he seized her wrist and snatched from her fingers the note which she was carrying. Nearly everyone turned their heads at the sound of her little cry of dismay. Her husband held the note high above her reach. Then he stepped a yard or two on one side, broke the seal, and read. He glanced back at the name upon the envelope and called to the concierge.

'Just point me out Mr. Edmund Martin, will you?' he demanded in a loud tone.

'You're in for a nice thing,' Lady Chalmont whispered. 'Don't you wish you'd gone for that motor-ride?'

The concierge hesitated for a moment, with his eyes fixed upon our little group, but Mr. Foster-Howes was obviously not a man to be trifled with.

'If you don't answer my question at once,' he said, 'I shall report you for incivility.'

The concierge indicated our presence, and the injured husband strode promptly over to our table.

'I understand, sir, that your name is Martin?' he snapped, addressing me.

'That's so,' I replied. 'You are Mr. Foster-Howes, I believe? Glad to meet you, sir.'

'Then I'm damned if I can return the compliment,' Mr. Foster-Howes replied bluntly. 'I have just intercepted this note, addressed to you by my wife. Be so good as to explain it, if you can.'

I took the sheet of paper between my lingers, crossed my legs, and removed the cigar from my lips. Then I proceeded to read it aloud, which was evidently what he expected.

'"My dearest!—"'

Lady Chalmont drew a little away from me.

'You wicked young man!' she exclaimed.

'I'll "dearest" you!' Mr. Foster-Howes muttered.

'Say, let me get on with this,' I begged, as soon as I had recovered from the shock. '"Don't come near me ",' I went on, resuming the reading. '"Someone has written to Richard, and he is furious. Be very careful, loved one, please. He will only stay a few days, and when he has gone, everything will be as before. Ever and only yours, Blanche."'

'I am waiting, sir,' Mr. Foster-Howes declared with a truculent air, 'for your explanation.'

I folded the note up and returned it. To me it was a far more interesting document than any of the little group could imagine.

'Explanation?' I repeated. 'Well, I don't know exactly what sort of explanation you expect from me.'

'I desire to know from your own lips, sir,' Mr. Foster-Howes demanded, 'upon what terms you are with the lady who writes you in that fashion?'

I replaced the cigar in the corner of my mouth and leaned back.

'Quite a friendly little note, isn't it?' I observed.

'A friendly little note, you call it?' Mr. Foster-Howes spluttered. 'Is that all you have to say?'

'Here are the facts, if you want them,' I replied. 'I talked to your wife for the first time about a week or ten days ago. I found her a very charming companion and we have had a very pleasant time together. I am sorry you have come to interrupt it, and I hope you'll soon go away.'

Mr. Foster-Howes appeared to be at a loss for words. The Colonel told me afterwards that he had never seen my bland and boyish expression assert itself so triumphantly. He added that I had the appearance of a man in a difficult position, who had spoken the truth not because it was the easiest, but because it was the most natural thing to do.

'Do you suppose,' Mr. Foster-Howes blurted out, 'that I shall put up with bluff like this?'

'I don't see what bluff there is about it,' I protested. 'What do you accuse me of? Paying attentions to your wife? I plead guilty. A very charming woman she is, too. Now what are you going to do about it?'

'You have made her the talk of the place, sir,' my antagonist declared angrily, 'so much so that people in this hotel sent me word of what was going on, and I have had to come out all the way from England.'

'Arriving this morning?' I asked, looking at him for a moment.

'Arriving by the Luxe this morning,' Mr. Foster-Howes assented, with a sudden, almost imperceptible start.

'Well, I'm sorry,' I assured him, 'very sorry indeed, but you really shouldn't take any notice of anonymous letters. There are always a lot of old cats in the world, you know, especially at a place like this, who've got nothing else to do but talk gossip. Don't you take any notice of 'em. Your wife's all right.'

Mr. Foster-Howes drew a little nearer.

'Bluff,' he said earnestly, striking the round table with his clenched fist, 'is the one national characteristic of you Americans, but it won't carry you anywhere. That note, sir, tells its own story!'

I tried all I could to soothe him.

'Say, you are taking this affair too seriously,' I insisted. 'Sit right down and have some coffee and a liqueur.'

'I'll see myself damned before I drink with you!' Mr. Foster-Howes exclaimed furiously. 'Will you be so good as to step with me into the wood there?'

'I'd rather not,' I replied. 'I make it a rule never to take much exercise after luncheon.'

'You are either,' Mr. Foster-Howes declared, 'going to have the thrashing of your life, or—'

'Say, I'm glad there's an alternative,' I interrupted, with an air of relief. 'What is it?'

For some time, the injured husband remained silent. I watched him steadily. I, too, was thinking a lot.

'There are things to be considered,' he went on gloomily. 'You have broken up my career, you have robbed me of my wife. She is a wealthy woman and I have nothing but my pension.'

'Cheque book or pistols, eh?' I murmured.

Forced to disclose his hand, Mr. Foster-Howes was at a disadvantage and he knew it. Nevertheless, he did his best

'You may scoff as much as you like,' he proceeded, 'but if you won't stand up to me like a man, the only way I can make you suffer is through your pocket. You can have this letter and peace for five thousand pounds.'

'Who gets the lady?' I asked.

I thought for a moment that the injured husband would have fallen upon me. He turned, however, upon his heel.

'You shall hear from my lawyer, sir,' he concluded. 'I will not waste my time discussing matters with you.'

We watched him disappear, in silence. There was a general air of relief all down the long line of chairs. Everyone had been straining so hard to listen.

'Say, that's an agreeable sort of person,' I remarked, relighting my cigar.

'I am not sure that I do not entirely sympathize with him,' Lady Chalmont said severely. 'Fancy a boy of your age being in the divorce court!'

'I'm not there yet,' I chuckled.

Lady Chalmont tugged at her knitting.

'H'm!' she remarked. 'That note sounded very compromising.'

'It certainly did,' I admitted. 'However, I've been in a worse fix than this before....'


>I spent the rest of the afternoon in Hyères, where I enjoyed myself exceedingly. When I returned to the hotel I found the Colonel walking up and down the lounge, waiting for me. He took me at once into the bar.

'Young man,' he began, frowning at me austerely, 'I have had a very distressing interview with Mr. Foster-Howes.'

'Is that so?' I answered, telegraphing my order to the bar-tender. 'I shall be having something of the sort myself with him before long!'

'The man's manners may not be ingratiating,' the Colonel continued, 'but he has, at any rate, a certain amount of right on his side. He has been to me as a friend of yours, and I have agreed to put the following facts before you. In the first place, Mr. and Mrs. Foster-Howes have decided to separate. They are leaving the hotel together this evening, but will separate at the railway station. Mr. Foster-Howes is going back to London, and immediately he arrives there he is consulting his solicitors with a view to procuring a divorce.'

'Isn't the evidence just a little thin?' I ventured, shaking up the ice in my whisky-and-soda.

'Not so thin as you may think,' the Colonel declared impressively. 'He must have found out a few things besides that letter, apart from which he declares that his wife has practically confessed.'

'Confessed what?'

'Her affection for you,' the Colonel continued grimly. 'She has admitted that she could not stand cross-examination on the point. She has admitted as much to me in the presence of her husband. After that, there didn't seem to be much to be said. I can't say that I admire the man's attitude, but at least it is, to a certain extent, reasonable. He pointed out that his wife has two thousand a year, which hitherto they have divided. Now that they are separated, Mr. Foster-Howes will have nothing but his pension of a hundred and forty pounds a year. He is quite convinced that he would get heavy damages in the divorce court, but he is prepared, if you wish, to compromise for a certain amount down.'

'How much?' I asked.

'Three thousand pounds,' the Colonel told me.

I lit a cigar and leaned back in my chair.

'Three thousand pounds, eh? Don't they wish they may get it!'

'Of course, I don't know much about the affair,' the Colonel remarked a little stiffly. 'I don't know what evidence they would be able to produce, but that note sounded to me compromising enough, and Mrs. Foster-Howes would probably confess.'

I began to laugh softly. The Colonel regarded me severely. He had evidently made up his mind that I was a very black sheep.

'I have discharged my mission,' he said. 'It is for you to give an answer. Do you mean to pay?'

'Not a cent,' I declared.... 'My God, they're off!'

From my seat I could just catch a glimpse of the open space in front of the hotel. I suddenly realized what was happening. With a single bound I crossed the floor of the room, rushed up the stairs, across the lounge and down the hall. I burst through the doorway, scattering the people right and left.

'Fritz,' I shouted,' stop that omnibus! Stop it, I say!'

There was a little commotion outside. The omnibus, which was just moving off, came to a standstill. The white face of Mr. Foster-Howes looked out from the back window.

'Hold on a minute,' I called out. 'I want a word with you, Mr. Foster-Howes.'

'You have three days in which to consider the matter of my proposals,' Mr. Foster-Howes replied. 'I have left my address with the hotel management. Be so good as not to detain me. We have only just time to catch the train.'

'There'll be no train for you to-night, my friend,' I declared, clinging to the back of the omnibus. 'Hallo, you fellows there!'

There followed what was perhaps the most exciting five minutes I ever remember in my life. In response to my frantic summons, the two men who had been sitting upon a seat in front of the hotel came running up. Mr. Foster-Howes had let down one of the broad windows of the omnibus and was crouching upon the seat.

'Here's your man,' I cried, pointing to him. 'Prenez garde là, on the left-hand side. Look out, you idiots!'

My warning, only half understood, came too late. Mr. Foster-Howes was through the window of the omnibus. In full sight of a score or so of loungers in front of the hotel, he sprang across the avenue and plunged into the shrubbery. Both men followed him, and two others in uniform, who had been sitting in a small car drawn back near the shrubbery, joined in the chase. Fritz mounted guard over the omnibus, which we left in the avenue.

We spread out a little, I on the outside wing, and in a moment we saw Mr. Foster-Howes emerge a little way down the drive, and, turning sharp to the right, dash across towards the violet farm. One of his pursuers, however, was gaining upon him, and I was fast closing in on the other side. Suddenly he paused, his arm shot out. Through the dim light flashed a level stream of fire.

'Keep back, you others,' he shouted. 'I don't want to hurt you. Where's that damned American?'

I was within a dozen paces of him now. The others had stopped short and we formed almost a semicircle around him. Even in that moment of queer excitement, when I was taking what cover I could against the back of a small peach tree, I remember the perfume of the violets which we were crushing beneath our feet. The figure of the hunted man loomed up singularly large against the flat, empty background. His eyes were like points of fire.

'Stand out of the way, all of you!' he cried viciously. 'You come near me at your own risk. I'm going to settle with that devil Martin!'

From being the pursued, he suddenly swung around and advanced towards us. The emissaries from the gendarmerie, like brave men, after the first moment's hesitation, never wavered. They ran in towards him. Taking no notice of them, Mr. Foster-Howes raised his hand and fired point-blank at me. I had been half-prepared, waiting only for the angle of his pistol.

I dropped like lightning on one knee, and the bullet whistled over my head. Then I covered him low down with my own revolver, and a stream of light, only a foot or so from the ground, blazed across the blue-carpeted field. My antagonist threw up his arms with a yell of pain. Before he could recover himself, he was in the grip of the officers.

'I've shot him in the leg,' I called out. 'Be careful, you fellows. He killed a policeman in New York after they had closed with him. He was in Sing-Sing for it the last time I saw him.'

They gathered the sense of my words somehow, and they gave him very little chance. In a few seconds my own arm was around his neck, and the three of us were too many for Mr. Foster-Howes. He lay on the ground, gasping, as they handcuffed him.

'Who the devil are you, anyway?' he demanded, glaring up at me.

'Just Edmund H. Martin, of New York,' I told him cheerfully. 'I've had you pointed out to me more than once, you and Slick Sue, as they used to call the lady up at the hotel. Dancing halls in Fourteenth Street one night, you know, and Delmonico's the next. Quite a game while it lasted! I saw you, too, at Sing-Sing just before you broke out.'

'But what the devil's the meaning of this?' he gasped, looking around at the gendarmes. 'What am I charged with?'

'You'll find out all about that when you get down to the mayor,' I assured him. 'I've been looking into things myself the last few days. Found out, for instance, who it was who sat in the corner of that café the night when Philippe Moule was flaunting his legacy about, who it was that helped himself to Paul Dérode's bicycle and rode off after Moule. It wasn't so badly managed, either.

'Dérode came up, running, to find his victim, as he thought, delivered into his hands—lying in a drunken stupor upon the road. It was only after he had struck his blow that he discovered that the man was already dead and his pockets empty. How's that for a reconstruction, eh. Mr. Foster-Howes? A few little points to be cleared up, perhaps, but it's not far off the truth.'

They led him back towards the omnibus, sullen and a little dazed. People from the hotel were now streaming over the field. I was still slightly out of breath, and I was glad of the Colonel's support.

'It was a neat game, Colonel,' I told him, as we climbed the hill. 'The woman's been staying up here for weeks, keeping her eyes open, and the man's been living down in the slums of the town, disguised as a peasant, ready for anything that might come along.'

'But how the mischief,' the Colonel asked, 'did you get on to all this?'

'Partly luck,' I admitted. 'The man worked on that violet farm in the daytime—to escape suspicion, I suppose, and he dropped a note for his wife one day when we were playing golf. She lost it, and when I changed my clothes that evening I found it in the turned-up part of my trousers. There were only a couple of lines, but it gave the show away pretty neatly.'

The Colonel let go my arm.

'Then you mean to say that your flirtation with Mrs.
Foster-Howes—'

'You make me tired,' I interrupted. 'Let's get round the back way and have a dry one before we change.'</story>