<story title="THE SIREN VOICE, PART 2" date="1916">
FOR several moments I could not believe in my good fortune. Then I crossed the street and strolled along the pavement, glancing in at the shop window as I passed. There was a stout woman at the counter, with her back turned to me. She was sitting down examining some material. Standing by her side was Irvina. I caught a glimpse of her face for the first time. She was a little pale, but her eyes and mouth were just as sweet as I had ever pictured them. There was an air of weariness about her attitude, as though the purchases which her chaperon was making interested her scarcely at all.

As I paused at the shop entrance, she turned her head and our eyes met. Her first glance was careless enough. Then she seemed to recollect. She started a little and looked down, but a second later she raised her eyes and glanced at me again. There was something in her face which puzzled me. Was she begging me to go away, or calling to me? I lingered at the shop window. Then I saw that a portion of it was devoted to men's haberdashery. Without any further hesitation, I walked in.

'I want some gloves, please,' I announced.

Fortune seemed to be doing its best to atone to me for my ill-spent afternoon. I was invited over to the counter before which Irvina was standing. I took my place, indeed, next to her. The old lady was making purchases with the air of one to whom a bargain is the dearest thing in life. The girl gave me one glance, and I knew then that what I had sometime thought must be a dream, was a reality. I knew that something had called to me from behind her mask, something which would call to me always, for my happiness or misery. We were standing within a foot or two of one another. The woman who was serving me was reaching up to a shelf, with her back turned towards us. I whispered the girl's name: 'Irvina!'

She looked at me, and her lips moved. That one look completed, whilst perhaps it altered, my subjugation. After all, she was only a child. Her face was the face of a child, though the trouble and fear which seemed to lurk in her eyes gave her a more womanly air. I tore a piece of paper from the lid of one of the boxes and wrote upon it hastily:


'My name is Edmund H. Martin, Hotel de Paris. Send for me if you are in trouble.'

I crushed it up in my hand. The woman was showing me the gloves. I found fault with them all—foolish fault it must have seemed—until she turned away for a fresh supply. Then I pushed the crumpled-up ball of paper along the counter. Irvina hesitated for a single moment and glanced at her chaperon. Then her fingers closed upon it. She slipped it into the little black silk bag she was carrying. It was fortunate I had taken this chance, for it was my last one. Her chaperon seemed to become suddenly conscious that it was a man who was standing next to her charge. She completed her purchases abruptly, threw an angry glance at me and hurried the girl out of the shop, I was very careful not to turn around or show any undue haste, and when I regained the street, the car had vanished. I walked back to the hotel, however, with a greater sense of contentment. At last I had taken the first step.

At the hotel I found a letter and a note—the former from the Colonel, announcing his return that evening, the latter from de Mieville, short and to the point:


'Come at once to Ciro's bar. I wait for you there.— De M.'

I hastened out again and found de Mieville sitting in front of one of the small tables, with an untasted glass of absinthe before him. He welcomed me eagerly and made room for me by his side.

'My young American friend,' he began, 'I have been a fool. I have given way to superstitions. It is not so that one advances oneself in the world. You are young and strong. You have, if not much, at least some intelligence. Why should you not, if you seek to, unravel the mystery of the siren voice, of the masked prima donna?'

'You are late at the show,' I told him. 'I know all about it. I have been to the Villa Violette this afternoon.'

De Mieville drew a little breath.

'And you are here, well and alive?' he gasped.

'Never better,' I declared. 'I have heard the history of the masked singer. I know that she is being trained for Grand Opera, and I know that she is a protegée of a great nobleman, who, if he is satisfied with her voice, will see that she has her chance.'

De Mieville rose abruptly to his feet. He was trembling with a sudden fit of rage. His small white teeth gleamed under his jet-black moustache. His face seemed to have contracted. There was hate burning in his narrow eyes.

'A great nobleman indeed 1' he muttered fiercely. 'My master once—Adalbert von Kruck.'

'Glad you know him,' I remarked. 'You may be able to help me.'

'How?'

'I don't like the story,' I said. 'I don't like the people who are bringing up the girl. She seems to be living in the shadow of some fear. I saw it in her face when I spoke to her this morning.'

Quick as lightning he crossed himself.

'You spoke to her?'

'Certainly,' I replied.

'At the Villa Violette?'

'No. I stood next her in a shop. I told her my name. It seemed to me as though she might soon be in need of a friend.'

There was a look in de Mieville's eyes which I had noticed once or twice before. He scarcely knew what to make of me. He seemed, indeed, not to have made up his mind whether I was a fool or a person with gifts.

'There is no friend who can help her,' he said. 'Her future is written.'

'Is that so?' I remarked. 'Perhaps you know it?'

'I do,' he answered gloomily. 'Adalbert von Kruck will come, he will hear her sing, he will decide for himself whether she is to go into Grand Opera or not. For the rest, he will decide also for himself the other things.'

He saw a cloud in my face but he only shrugged his shoulders.

'There are just two things in life which the Prince cares for,' he pronounced, 'music and women. He has never denied himself anything to do with either of them. He never will. As for this girl, she is in the hands of his creatures, fed and clothed to-day by his bounty. She will be like the others of whom I have known.'

It was I now who was furious. I could have wrung the little man's neck but one could see that he had spoken in good faith.

'In Germany your Prince von Kruck may find things of that sort dead easy,' I said. 'It will be a different matter if he comes here, believe me.'

He looked at me out of the corners of his dark eyes.

'You imagine,' he asked, his voice shaking a little, 'you young American gentleman, you imagine that if he comes here and it pleases him, that you will be able to interfere?'

My blood was up and I answered him firmly.

'If Adalbert von Kruck, or anyone else in the world comes here,' I declared, 'the girl shall still be a free agent. I promise you that.'

De Mieville sipped his absinthe.

'It is the spirit of the new world which speaks,' he muttered. 'It is not for me to understand.'

My companion's voice had sunk to a whisper. I might have imagined that he had wearied of the subject, but a glance at him almost startled me. He was seated by my side, all hunched up, little drops of sweat upon his forehead, his fingers knotted together. I laid my hand upon his shoulder.

'Say, what's wrong with you, de Mieville?' I demanded. 'You look as though you'd got the ague.'

'What's wrong with me?' he repeated hoarsely. 'Wrong?'

He suddenly turned towards me, sat upright, and struck the table before him so that our glasses rattled. His eyes flashed.

'For my own sake I do this!' he exclaimed. 'I tell the truth. I tear the truth from my heart. You saw me shiver and creep away when the girl sang. It was my conscience that troubled me. Behold, my friend! It was into my care that old Ambroise confided his daughter as he lay dying. "Take her to Paris," he begged, "to my sister there." And then he whispered: "Don't let him see her or hear her sing." And I know whom he meant. He meant the Master!'

I drew a little back in my place.

'And you?' I asked, a sudden horror turning me almost cold.

'I meant to keep my word,' de Mieville continued, clutching at the air as he spoke. 'God knows I meant to! And the devil tempted me. I was the petted servant of the Prince. It was my business to keep him amused, and he rewarded me, in those days, magnificently. I asked for a fortnight's leave of absence to take the child to Paris. He listened to my story—he was in an idle humour. The devil laid the poison upon my tongue. I spoke to him of the girl's voice and of the girl herself. "Bring her to me before you go," he ordered. Then I knew what I had done, but I obeyed.'

'And afterwards?' I interrupted impatiently.

'He no sooner saw her than his mind was made up,' de Mieville groaned. 'He appointed Kohlan her singing master and bought them the little villa where they live.'

'But this singing in the streets?'

'Kohlan is a gambler,' de Mieville explained. 'He cannot keep from the tables. They are often penniless, notwithstanding the Prince's allowance. Then he makes her sing in the Square and the money rolls in. Now you know all the truth,' he wound up, clasping his head with his hand. 'Now you know why the sound of that voice fills me with horror, why with every note I seem to look around me and hear that dying man's prayer—and to remember. Just now it is more terrible than ever.'

'Why?'

'Because Adalbert von Kruck is on his way to this place, and because Irvina is no longer a child!'

I sat quite still for some minutes, with folded arms. I was conscious all the time that the little man by my side was watching me furtively.

'Why have you told me this?' I asked at last.

'Conscience! And because—well, you are different from the others. If there is anyone who might, perhaps—But no, that is impossible! Still, you are different.'

I put a muzzle upon my lips. There was so much that I was burning to say.

'How do you know,' I demanded, 'that the Prince is on his way here?'

De Mieville shrugged his shoulders.

'There are a hundred men working at the villa,' he declared. 'Vanloads of plate and wines have already arrived. They speak of his arrival this week. Step up the hill and you will see the blue Kruck liveries already in the gardens and about the house. I myself have worn that livery. It was in my younger days, before I was promoted to be valet and secretary.'

I kept de Mieville talking. I had always the idea that he might be of use to me. He told me the story of his disgrace and dismissal, which reflected little enough credit upon him. Then I rose to go.

'Look here,' I said, 'if this man comes from Germany, he will come by train and not by motor-car.'

'Assuredly,' de Mieville assented,

'If you bring me news of his arrival within half an hour of that event, it will be worth ten louis to you.'

'It is easy that,' he promised. 'This afternoon I will go up to the villa. There are still some of my friends amongst the servants. They will tell me when the Master is expected. . . .'


That night I dined alone with the Colonel and his sister, Lady Chalmont. Before the first course had been removed, I had told them everything about the girl with the siren voice. Lady Chalmont was sympathetic from the first. The Colonel, notwithstanding his dear, kindly old nature, was just a little suspicious. He has a habit of fancying himself worldly-wise, which tickles me to death.

'A singing girl in the streets, you know, and Monte Carlo, too,' he exclaimed, shaking his head at me, 'with a royal prince in the background! You haven't been at the bookstalls, have you, young man?'

'Don't tease him,' Lady Chalmont insisted. 'I can assure you that I am most interested, Mr. Martin.'

'I hope you will be,' I replied, 'for it seems to me that I may need your help before long.'

The Colonel looked at me over his pince-nez, which he had temporarily adjusted to inspect the menu.

'Are you serious?' he demanded.

'Absolutely,' I answered doggedly. 'I am going to get the girl away from that lot, if I can.'

'And if you do, what then?' Lady Chalmont asked gently.

'I don't know,' I frankly confessed. 'It depends.'

'Of course it does,' Lady Chalmont agreed. 'It seems to me that the first thing to do is to get the girl away from these people.'

After dinner, the Colonel, seeing that I was in earnest, became methodical.

'Let us,' he said, 'briefly review the position. The girl lives, you say, at the Villa Violette with her singing master, a bully who poses as or may be, indeed, the butler, and a stout lady who is the singing master's sister. They are pensioned by Prince Adalbert and are supposed to be training the girl's voice. Meanwhile the singing master gambles at roulette, loses his money, and makes it up by forcing the girl to sing in the streets.'

'Capital!' I murmured.

'Von Kruck is on his way here,' the Colonel continued. 'I saw that in the paper. His villa is being prepared for him. The girl will have to sing for his approval directly he arrives. I gather from your statement, Edmund, that she is presentable?'

'She's the prettiest thing on earth,' I declared enthusiastically.

The Colonel sighed. 'I am not one of those who listen to idle gossip,' he said, 'but it is notorious that Prince Adalbert is one of the greatest roués in Europe. The situation being defined, tell me exactly what you propose?'

'I wish I knew,' I confessed. 'I haven't the ghost of a plan. Until that man arrives, I think I shall do nothing. I shall just wait in case she should write me. When he arrives, well, then I think I shall force my way into the villa. Somehow or other, the girl must be made to know and understand, if she doesn't already.'

'All very vague,' the Colonel pronounced, 'but if our help is needed, you know that you can count upon us'....


There followed three days of restless inaction, and then a sudden climax. De Mieville came to me while I was taking my early breakfast. He was looking more serious than usual.

'The Prince,' he announced, 'arrives at midday.'

I pushed away my plate.

'The devil he does!'

'I have done much on your behalf,' de Mieville proceeded, with an air of modest triumph. 'I have spent much time and made a few little disbursements, to which I will refer later. I have made friends again at the villa. I am persona grata there, in and out just whenever I wish. I have discovered much.'

'Go on,' I begged.

'The Prince has issued cards for a reception to-night.
Mademoiselle is to sing. Haubert will be there, from
the Opera. Furthermore—'

He hesitated for a moment. I almost felt what was coming.

'Certain arrangements have been made at the villa,' de Mieville continued. 'It appears probable that the Prince is disposed to take up his guardianship.'

I sprang from my place and seized my hat and gloves.

'And now where do you go in such a hurry?' de Mieville inquired.

'To the Villa Violette,' I told him.

'Useless!' de Mieville exclaimed. "They are well prepared for your visit. This, too, I have discovered. The girl is locked in her room. You could never reach it. You could never pass that terrible man who is lent to Kohlan from the Prince's own household. But see what I have for you."

He drew a card from his pocket. I looked it over mechanically. It was in French and covered all over with lithographic flourishes. I gathered, however, that it was a card of invitation.

'You can go to-night,' de Mieville pointed out. 'For the rest, if you have a plan you can count on my aid. I have fought with my superstition. I will help, if need be. It shall be my atonement. In the meantime, there are the ten louis for apprising monsieur of the Prince's arrival, and a matter of at least five louis I have laid out amongst the servants of the villa. I am, indeed, out of pocket to more than that amount. I dislike very much to mention this matter—I, a de Mieville—but necessity compels.'

I counted out twenty louis and passed them over to him.

'If I need your help,' I said, 'I shall know where to send for you. I must think.'

De Mieville drew a little closer to me.

'I do not wish to excite you, Meester Martin,' he declared, shaking his head vigorously,' but you will take my advice. If indeed you are in earnest, it must be to-night.'

I almost pushed him from the room. His eyes were so clearly trying to confirm the horrible suspicion which his words had already implanted. And then, as though to complete my madness, the post was brought in, and there was a little common mauve envelope and half a sheet of ink-smeared note-paper, and a few lines scrawled upon it in pencil:


'Monsieur, I send you this. I do not know why. Can you help me? I am frightened. To-night I am to sing before Prince von Kruck, and they are packing my things. I am being sent away. I do not understand and there is no one who will answer my questions. I am so frightened.—Irvina.'

I took the note to the Colonel. He and I and Lady Chalmont, who was going to Paris by the night train, studied it and made plans the whole of the day. We met with no success, however. Early in the afternoon, the Colonel and his sister drove up to the Villa Violette. They announced themselves as friends of the late Monsieur Ambroise, Irvina's father. They wished to see the daughter. They were met with all politeness from Kohlan. To-morrow, he promised them, their visit would be most welcome. On that particular day mademoiselle was invisible. Her voice was to be tried for Opera that night. Nothing that they could say produced any effect.

We had agreed that no threat should be used, nothing to excite suspicion, so in the end they came away. Then de Mieville and I, in a powerful automobile which I had hired, drove up to the villa an hour before they were to start, and hid at a turn in the shrubbery. We left our car in the road, and if they had come out as I had expected, in the crazy little car they used in the town, I had made up my mind to accost them, and although de Mieville and I maintained a discreet silence as to my exact intentions, I knew very well, at the back of my head, what I meant to do.

When the time came, however, a closed automobile of the Prince's arrived, with two men on the box, and when it passed out, Irvina was escorted not only by Kohlan and the butler, but by a third man, who, de Mieville whispered to me, was connected with the police and travelled always with the Prince. We let the automobile pass. There seemed nothing to be gained by disclosing our presence. Presently we followed it to the villa itself. It was the hour for the reception and guests were beginning already to arrive.

'Alas, Meester Martin!' de Mieville sighed, as he prepared to alight, 'this time my wits have failed me. All day long I have racked my brains. No scheme could I think of. The Prince is so powerful. You see how they have kept the girl guarded. Perhaps it is best for you that you do not look at her again, that you do not listen to her sing, that you come away now with me. I will take you to a very charming place of amusement, where, let us hope, you may forget—'

'Go to blazes, de Mieville!' I interrupted, pushing him out of the automobile. 'This affair isn't finished yet, believe me.'

I instructed the driver of my hired automobile to wait for me in a particular spot, and I made my way with the others into the villa. At another time I should have wondered at the magnificence of the preparations, the profusion of flowers, the splendour of the rooms, but that night I was like a man in a dream. Though my senses were all the time on the alert, I had but one thought.

With a little crowd of others I made my way to where the Prince was receiving his guests. He was a tall man with an iron-grey moustache, closely cropped iron-grey hair, a protruding underlip, and little bags of flesh hanging under his eyes. As I was announced, I suddenly felt my right hand clenched instead of extended. I had a wild desire to fell him with a single blow. It was so easy. It might be possible even to escape afterwards in the confusion. The thought was momentary.

I held out my hand and received the same polite bow as the others, but I passed on a little comforted. If the worst came to the worst, there was always the last resource!

I behaved as the other guests did, except that I had no one to talk to. I loitered around and found my way early to the music-room. It was almost empty at that time, but Kohlan was on the platform, standing by the piano. He came at once towards me, and there was an evil look in his face.

'How did you get here?' he demanded.

I produced my card of invitation, but he turned as though to leave me and I read his intention in his face.

'Look here,' I said, 'this card came to me quite in the ordinary way and I have made up my mind that once more, at any rate, I will hear Irvina sing. If you interfere, listen. If you interfere in any way, do you think it will be a pleasant thing for the Prince to hear from me how you have made up your roulette losses?—that the masked lady with the siren voice whom people speak of here, singing in the streets, is none other than the girl whom he left in your charge to train for Grand Opera?'

The man's face was ghastly with terror. He gripped the back of one of the chairs, which were arranged in rows.

'You fool!' he muttered. 'You don't know. The girl in the streets wore a mask.'

'I not only know, but I can convince the Prince or anybody else of the truth,' I answered. 'Leave me alone. Believe me, it will be safer for you.'

He made his way back to the piano without a word and pretended to arrange some music there. Every now and then he took a handkerchief from his pocket. I could see that he was wiping the sweat from his forehead. As soon as he had disappeared through a little door, which apparently led to the room at the back of the stage, I moved my seat to the front row.

Presently the guests began to stream in and take their places in the arm-chairs. Almost last of all, the Prince came and seated himself only a few places from me. I thought that he glanced at me a little curiously as he passed, but in any case it was impossible for him to know all his guests by sight. Then there was a silence. Someone came in and arranged a stand upon the platform.

I felt my heart tearing away inside me, almost a mist before my eyes. The little door opened but it was Kohlan only who came, Kohlan followed by another man, a stranger with long black hair and a pale face. They ascended the platform together. The stranger played a violin solo. I believe it was wonderful music. Everyone applauded. As for me, I heard nothing. Very slowly I was making up my mind. The Prince was only a few paces from me. If there were no other way, I would kill him! I grew calmer as the stage was once more empty and the door again opened. Irvina came through and was handed by Kohlan on to the platform. I don't often tell my age. People say I look about twenty-two. I am really twenty-nine.

For the second time in my life I found my sight blurred with tears. There was a horrible new pain at my heart. All the quivering passion, the straining joy of seeing her, seemed to have passed away. In its place was a queer pity—I can call it nothing else—the most wonderful, the most compelling sentiment I think I ever felt. She was only a child. I was just realizing it. In her white frock, with her big black eyes, her little bosom rising and falling, her thin, unformed figure, she stood there just as a child from boarding-school might have stood, without a friend in the world, with vague terrors shining out of her face as her nervous fingers gripped the tiny little sheet of music she held.

She never saw me. I think she saw nothing. But the Prince, speaking loudly, clapped his hands and I saw an awful shiver pass through her frame. Then I knew quite well that, unless a miracle happened, I should kill the Prince that night!

Kohlan commenced the accompaniment. Irvina sang. Her voice was so tremulous at first that it scarcely carried the length of the room. As she felt the warmth of the music, as it grew and grew, I could see her beginning to forget, and as she forgot, her notes became richer and clearer.

Again I felt the thrill of that first morning when I had leaned over the balcony at Ciro's, only this time it was a different thing. . . . She finished, They all applauded wildly. She tried to leave the platform but the Prince sprang up and stopped her. He whispered something in her ear. She tried to smile but she simply obeyed as a child. Again she sang. It was in Italian and I knew nothing of the words. All the time, though, her voice was tearing at something inside me. I felt that there was something which only she and I, in all the world, understood—the terror. I saw Haubert—the man from the Opera—and the Prince exchange glances.

Then her song ended. She stood for a moment on the platform, her hands straight by her side, her eyes always fixed upon the far end of the room as though she were seeking something she could not find. They applauded her again wonderfully. This time she left the platform and passed through the little door, escorted both by the Prince and Kohlan. She passed within an inch of me, but I kept my head down. We all sat and waited there. The servants were handing around champagne and refreshments of various sorts.

Presently the door on my right opened. I heard a voice raised almost as though in anger. The Prince came slowly out, and as I saw his face, I felt that the time had come to kill him. I felt that no man with a look like that should go unpunished. There was a smile upon his lips—a hateful, derisive smile. Then I saw through the open door into the little room. The Prince, looking around, addressed a man sitting two rows back. He took him for an Englishman, and spoke to him in his own tongue.

'Are you by any chance, a physician?' he inquired 'The excitement has been too much for the young lady. She has fainted.'

I sprang up.

'I am a doctor,' I announced.

He held the door open for me and I passed through. They had opened the back door to get a current of air and below it, down a flight of steps, was the avenue. Kohlan had disappeared. I heard him in the background calling for water. Another man and woman wen bending over Irvina, who was lying back in an easy-chair.

'There is a case in my overcoat pocket, number twenty-seven in the hall,' I told the man. 'Fetch it quickly. There is some sal volatile there.'

He turned away. The room was now almost empty. I stepped back, closed the door which led into the music-room and turned the key, which by chance was in the lock. And then I caught her up in my arms and ran—yes, I ran down those steps! The wind seemed to come into my face like a hurricane. I think that I covered the forty or fifty yards between that back door and the spot in the avenue where I had left my automobile in less time than any man breathing. The man had obeyed my orders implicitly. The engine was purring softly. I sprang into the tonneau with Irvina still in my arms.

'Au gare!' I shouted. 'Drive like hell!'

Already there was a commotion behind. I heard shouts, but we were turning out of the avenue now into the Corniche Road. I laid Irvina by my side and put my head out of the window.

'Vitement!' I cried. 'Vous comprenez? Vitement au gare! C'est un affair de cinq louts—cinq louis pour vous!'

'Mais parfaitement, monsieur!'

We rushed on. Once more I passed my arms around Irvina. I pushed the hair back from her forehead.

'Irvina,' I whispered, 'listen. You are safe. I am taking you away.'

She opened her eyes. She looked at me. The rush of night air seemed suddenly to revive her.

'Mais, monsieur—' she began.

'For heaven's sake, talk English,' I interrupted.

'But that is easy,' she replied. 'I am half English. Where are we? What has happened?'

'You fainted,' I told her. 'I came into the retiring room—they thought I was a doctor. I am taking you away. They will be after us directly. We have just one chance. Will you go to Paris with a friend of mine?'

'Without you?' she faltered, clinging to my arm.

'Dear,' I reminded her, 'you are only a child, and it is not for me to take you there. But you will be safe—you shall be safe.'

'Oh, anywhere,' she pleaded, 'if I can get away—away from the Villa Violette, away from the Prince!'

'You shall,' I promised. 'We'll do it. I have a dear friend who leaves for Paris by the eleven o'clock train. We are on our way to the station and there are fourteen minutes before the train starts. I am going to make you wear my coat and you will sit in a corner of the carriage with the lady who is going to take you there. I shall be on the platform, but I will only come out if they try to stop you.'

'I understand,' she whispered. 'I will do everything you say. If only we were in the train! If only it would start! I have an aunt in Paris. She wanted me to go there, but she was too poor to send the money for my ticket.'

We rushed onward towards the station, and far away round the Bay of Mentone we saw the light of the approaching train and heard its whistle.

'Little girl,' I said, 'be brave. Everything depends upon how you behave now. It's a dear old lady who will take you. Wear my coat, so'—I wrapped it around her—'and this cap.' I drew a tweed cap from my pocket and thrust it over her head. 'Now,' I continued, 'they will think in the station that you have just come in from Nice to the tables and are going back. There is a local train presently. Lean on my arm.'

We were at the station. I jumped out.

'Wait for me,' I ordered the man, 'but get into a corner somewhere, where they don't see you.'

He understood, fortunately. We crossed the line, and amongst the little crowd of people almost the first I saw were the Colonel and Lady Chalmont. They saw us coming and realized everything. I must say that the Colonel took in the situation marvellously. He tore the travelling-coat from his sister, made me take my coat off Irvina, and exchanged them quickly. In less than a moment Lady Chalmont, too, had taken off her veil and had pinned it around my cap.

'Child,' she said, 'don't tremble so. Why, you're almost unrecognizable. I'll take care of you.'

The train came slowly in—very slowly indeed, it seemed to me. We all boarded it. The Colonel was busier than any man I had ever seen. Wild with impatience though I was, it seemed only a matter of a few seconds before Lady Chalmont and Irvina were shown into a little coupé. The man held the key in his hand.

'Lock them in and turn out the lights,' the Colonel insisted. 'The ladies are tired.'

The man, with the gold in his hand, did nothing but bow.

Suddenly Irvina turned to me. She tried to speak and couldn't. Her big black eyes were wet with tears, her lips were quivering. I took both her hands in mine and kissed them.

'Little girl,' I begged, 'don't say a word. Think of me. I'll come soon—and see how you're getting on.'

Then I hurried off, for fear my presence might give the thing away. I passed to a remote corner of the station. The seconds dragged by. It seemed to me that never a train had waited in a station so long. At last I heard the welcome cry of the guard, and almost at the same moment I saw them come streaming across the line—servants, Kohlan, and a crowd of others. I saw them run along by the side of the train. Kohlan would have boarded it but he was pushed back.

From the darkness of my corner I waved my hat, and I fancied that I caught the gleam of a white hand from a darkened compartment. Then I sank down upon a bench and I watched until the tail lights of the train had disappeared. I watched even afterwards, gazing into the black gulf which seemed to have swallowed it up. I took no notice of the little group upon the platform, all shouting and gesticulating together. Presently I felt a little tap on the shoulder.

'Edmund,' the Colonel said quietly, 'I think we'll take the lift up, and a whisky-and-soda would do you no harm.'</story>