<story title="THE CURIOUS DISAPPEARANCE OF MR. JAMES WESTTHROP" date="1915">
I think that no man ever entered into the spirit of Monte Carlo more thoroughly than did my young friend Martin. Within three days of our arrival there his table at Ciro's and his corner in the Café de Paris were sacred things. His favourite croupier at the Sporting Club hung upon his words and watched for his presence. The bar-tenders at the Hôtel de Paris, where we stayed, at Ciro's, and at the Sporting Club were thoroughly acquainted with the exact amount of bitters he liked in his cocktails. There was only one thing needed to fill his cup of bliss, and that was a compatriot of similar taste and age, and, perhaps I should add, constitution.

For although my feelings of friendship for this young man had increased to a quite extraordinary extent, and although they were shared to a singular degree by my sister, whose outlook upon life I had always considered even stricter and more rigid than my own, the fact remained that our habits of life were too set to be altogether uprooted by the overwhelming assaults made upon them by this wonderful young man. We did our best to humour him.

My sister, Lady Chalmont, who for many years had not touched alcohol in any form, had fallen into the habit of taking a cocktail before dinner solely for his gratification, and I myself, although it was impossible for me to desert the moderate principles of my lifetime, still found myself—without evil results, I am thankful to say—indulging far more freely than has been my custom in various forms of spasmodic refreshment. At the same time, supper at the Café de Paris, and a later meal at the Carlton in which hot lobster and champagne were inevitable appurtenances, was not a form of dissipation suited to our years, or one in which we could frequently indulge with impunity.

I think that Martin himself realized this fact, and it was probably accountable, to some extent, for the extraordinary enthusiasm which marked his meeting with Mr. James P. Westthrop of Springfield, Massachusetts. We were all three sitting upon the terrace, sunning ourselves, one morning about a week after our arrival, and Martin was giving us an enthusiastic description of a cocktail which a stranger had tendered him on the previous evening, when he broke off in the middle of a sentence.

He sat a little forward in his seat and stared down the terrace. An expression came into his face which I can only describe as seraphic. With a simple movement of the teeth he effected the retreat of his cigar into the extreme corner of his mouth. Finally he rose to his feet. His great hand was stretched out to its utmost capacity. Hastening along towards him was a little scrub of a man with gold-rimmed spectacles, clean-shaven, neatly dressed, and in his way as unmistakably American as our young friend himself.

'James, my boy!' Martin thundered to the newcomer, who was at least old enough to be his father. 'Well, well, put it right there!'

'Edmund H. Martin, as I'm alive!' was the prompt reply, higher pitched, but none the less enthusiastic. 'Gee whiz, but this is great!'

There followed a minute or two of strange exclamations and of vigorous handshakes, bravely borne by the little man.

'Mrs. Westthrop?' Martin began tentatively.

The little man, who had given me at first the impression of being something almost clerical, solemnly winked. I associated him no longer with any such pretensions.

'She durstn't come, Edmund, my boy,' he declared, 'durstn't face the folk at home if she'd been to such a sinful place. The Reverend Patmore—you remember that lantern-jawed parson all the folks are crazy about in Springfield?—admonished her before she sailed. I left her in London.'

The whereabouts of Mrs. Westthrop seemed to be a matter for mutual congratulation, for again the two shook hands. Then the little man rescued his crushed fingers and thrust them through our young friend's arm.

'Only reached here last night,' he explained. 'You know the ropes. We'll try the nearest.'

'One moment,' Martin begged. 'Must introduce you to some particular friends of mine. Mr. Westthrop, of Springfield, Massachusetts—Lady Chalmont; her brother, Colonel Green, late of the British Army.'

Mr. Westthrop was exceedingly pleased to make our acquaintance and did not fail to tell us so, but he was evidently a great deal more pleased to have found his friend Martin. In a very few minutes they marched gaily off together, and, following them slowly along the terrace, we saw them cross the front of the Casino and make a bee-line for Ciro's bar.

'I am so glad, for Mr. Martin's sake, that he has found a friend,' my sister remarked.

'So am I,' I assented heartily. 'What I propose, Mary, is that we give ourselves and our—er—constitutions a rest, under the circumstances, and motor out to San Remo for lunch. We can drink Evian water, and have a nap in the car on our way back. Martin will be quite all right for the rest of the day.'

My suggestion was received by Mary with less enthusiasm than I had expected, but we nevertheless carried it out.


For three days we did not see a great deal of our young friend. Mr. Westthrop, who we gathered had been a lifelong friend of Mr. Martin, Senior, a friendship which had been carried on with singular continuity to the present generation, moved down his belongings to our hotel, and by the exercise of wholesale bribery found a room next to Martin's. Compared with these two, Damon and Pythias were novices in the arts of friendship. Never were two men more inseparable. They breakfasted together, they paid their morning's visit to the barber's together, they sallied out into the sunshine each morning at the same time, arm in arm.

From then until the small hours of the next day they were scarcely parted for a moment. Martin's influence upon his companion was very soon marked by small changes in the latter's attire and general deportment.

Mr. Westthrop, in the course of the next few hours, lost a good deal of his semi-clerical appearance, and before many days had passed it had vanished altogether. His small wisp of black tie was replaced by a grey silk cravat with white flowered pattern, and embellished by a pearl pin which I suspected from the first to be a gift from his young friend. The small black bowler hat was discarded in favour of a grey Homburg of similar colour and design to Martin's, which his pupil in the sartorial arts soon learned to wear at the same somewhat rakish angle. His newly acquired custom of wearing a flower in his buttonhole was one, also, which was without doubt instigated by his more worldly companion. Altogether, when Martin had finished with him, Mr. Westthrop looked a very different man.

We used to come across them continually in the Sporting Club or at Ciro's, in the rooms or on the terrace, or seated before one of the open-air tables at the Café de Paris, seldom talking much, yet with an ever-flowing stock of the same kind of jokes, which seemed to keep them in a state of perpetual good humour. They were, in fact, steeped in a sort of placid contentment, born of complete geniality and satisfaction with one another.

On the fifth day after Mr. Westthrop's arrival my sister went to a woman's luncheon party at Mentone, and I accepted Martin's prompt and enthusiastic invitation to join him and his friend at Ciro's. I felt, somehow or other, that I was to a certain extent an inharmonious note, but they both did their best to set me at my ease. Martin ordered a luncheon which would have done service for a Lord Mayor's feast, and considering his size and his somewhat meagre frame, Mr. Westthrop's efforts to do it justice were truly admirable. About half-way through the meal, the latter suddenly leaned forward in a state of some excitement.

'Gee! He's come!' he exclaimed.

'Who?' I asked, looking up.

A note almost of awe crept into Mr. Westthrop's tone. He pointed to a tall, grey-headed man, wearing heavily-shaded glasses, who had been led down the room leaning upon the arm of a younger companion.

'Know who that is?' he demanded breathlessly.

I shook my head.

'No idea.'

'That's Silas Frayne,' he announced, 'the Corset King.'

'The what king?' I asked, gazing at the somewhat dour-looking vision.

'Corset King,' Mr. Westthrop repeated. 'He's at the head of the Trust that controls all the corset factories in America, except two—mine and another. That man is worth fifty million dollars.'

'He doesn't look as though he derived much satisfaction from the fact,' I remarked dubiously.

'Poor devil!' Martin sighed, as he watched him pour out a glass of water.

Mr. Westthrop seemed suddenly to have grown in importance. His lips wore a self-satisfied smile.

'Silas Frayne's got one of the finest yachts that ever crossed the Atlantic,' he continued. 'Say, shall I tell you why he's here?'

'Well, I was beginning to wonder!' I murmured, looking at him.

'He is here to sec me,' Mr. Westthrop told us complacently. 'He called at my hotel in Paris just after I'd left, and his agent wired on to know how long I should be in Monte Carlo. That's Ned Brooks, his secretary, with him. He's just spotted us.'

I saw the secretary lean forward and whisper something to Mr. Frayne. A moment later the former rose to his feet and came over to our table. He held out his hand to Westthrop, who greeted him with transatlantic cordiality and promptly proceeded to introduce us.

'This is my friend, Mr. Edmund H. Martin of New York,' he said, 'and his friend, Colonel Green, late of the British Army. Make you both acquainted with Mr. Brooks. Mr. Brooks is private secretary to Mr. Silas Frayne.'

We all shook hands.

'Mr. Frayne wishes to know whether he can see you for half an hour this afternoon on a little matter of business,' Mr. Brooks announced, turning to Mr. Westthrop.

Mr. Westthrop showed a becoming hesitation.

'Business?' he repeated. 'I wasn't thinking of business much over this side. Plenty of corsets here in Monte Carlo, but not in our line exactly, eh, Brooks?'

Mr. Brooks smiled in sycophantic fashion.

'Mr. Frayne,' he continued, 'is very anxious to have a little chat with you, Mr. Westthrop. He missed you in New York and again in Paris last week. He declines to consider your last interview in Boston as final in any way.'

'Where are you staying?' Mr. Westthrop inquired.

'We sleep on the yacht every night,' the secretary explained. 'We go a mile or two out to sea and come back again in the morning. Mr. Frayne sleeps better that way. He found the noise in Paris intolerable.'

Mr. Westthrop nodded sympathetically.

'Well,' he said, 'I'm here on pleasure and I've no engagements. You might tell Mr. Frayne that I haven't changed my views since our last interview, but I'll have a chat with him with pleasure.'

Mr. Brooks, having accomplished his mission, shook hands with us all round and prepared to take his leave. Martin had spent the last few moments regarding the Corset King's preparation for luncheon with something like horror.

'Say, Mr. Brooks,' he asked, leaning forward in his place and detaining the secretary for a moment, 'does Mr. Frayne drink nothing but water?'

'Nothing!'

'Not a cocktail before luncheon, or a scotch-and-soda or a glass of wine, or anything of that sort?'

'Mr. Frayne is a world-known teetotaller,' the secretary replied. 'He has never tasted alcohol in any form. He is also a vegetarian.'

Martin buried his head in his hands. He did not recover himself until after Mr. Brooks had departed.

'So that's the Corset King, is it?' he muttered, a few moments later. 'Worth fifty millions, and he drinks water, eats vegetables, and goes about looking like nothing on earth.... Pass the decanter, Colonel.'

'There are only two factories,' Mr. Westthrop told us once more, impressively, 'manufacturing corsets to-day in the United States, which that man does not control. One belongs to a man named Hodgson, the other is my own.'

'Does he pinch you?' Martin inquired.

'He'd never hurt me in this world, sir,' Mr. Westthrop declared, with an air of self-satisfaction. 'I can make an article which no one else in the States can touch. He'd buy me out to-morrow and give me a million dollars for my goodwill, if I felt like it. Hodgson's in something like the same position but not quite so strong. So long as I keep out of the Trust, he can keep going.'

Mr. Brooks came over to us again a few minutes later.

'Mr Frayne presents his compliments,' he said to Mr. Westthrop, 'and he would like to sit with you outside in three-quarters of an hour's time.'

'That goes,' Mr. Westthrop agreed.

Martin was staring at Mr. Frayne's plate in a fascinated manner.

'Say, Mr. Brooks,' he inquired, 'how old is Silas Frayne?'

'Sixty-four.'

'I'd like to meet him,' Martin declared. 'Seems to me he wants someone to take him in hand. What fun's he get out of life, anyway?'

The young man smiled a little grimly.

'Mr. Frayne doesn't live for fun,' he replied. 'There are only two things in life which appeal to him in the slightest—dollars, and the power that dollars bring.'

'No use asking him to come over here and be sociable, I suppose?' Martin persisted, almost wistfully.

The secretary shook his head.

'Mr. Frayne,' he said, 'has not made a new acquaintance, except in the way of business, for some years.'

Martin collapsed for a moment or two but revived as he sipped the still, yellow wine from the tall glass by his side. At the conclusion of luncheon, we passed within a few feet of the table at which Mr. Frayne and his secretary were seated. The former looked at us with sightless eyes. Not a muscle of his face moved.

'He isn't in the least blind,' Mr. Westthrop told us as we strolled down the Arcade. 'He can see just as well as you or I. He wears those glasses so that he should never be obliged to recognize anyone.'

'The fellow's getting on my nerves,' Martin remarked irritably. 'Let's go and have a flutter in at the Casino, Colonel, whilst James talks to his Guy Fawkes.'

We strolled across the Square and spent an hour in the Rooms. When we returned, we found Mr. Westthrop waiting for us. The interview was at an end. We sat down and Martin ordered some refreshment. For some time Mr. Westthrop was uncommunicative. Then he suddenly struck the table by his side with his clenched fist.

'That man,' he exclaimed, 'is a fiend!'

'He's anything you like to call him,' Martin assented heartily. 'I never disliked a human creature so much in all my life.'

'Ten years ago.' Mr. Westthrop went on, 'that fellow Hodgson quarrelled with him. I guess Hodgson was in the right. He's a square chap, anyway. I have always said that Silas Frayne formed this Trust for no other reason than to break him. Last month, in Boston, he made me a big offer to sell out. If I sell, if he gets control of my plant, he can smash Hodgson. That's what he wants to do. I refused.'

'Bully for you!' Martin declared. 'I don't know Hodgson and I don't know anything about the corset business, but I'm all for saying "No!" to any proposition that Mr. Silas Frayne might bring forward.'

'He's been at it again to-day,' Mr. Westthrop continued, in a tone almost of awe. 'Look here, Martin, you're a youngster, but you've got your head screwed on your shoulders all right. You'll know what this means. We met last, as I said, in Boston, and he offered then to buy my plant, stock and debts at valuation, less trade discount only, and give me a million dollars' worth of stock in the Trust as goodwill. Do you know what he offered me here, within a few yards of this place, only ten minutes ago? He offered me, sir, two million dollars worth of stock and a million dollars in cash—and darned if he didn't—or rather if that fellow Brooks didn't—lay the agreement and a fountain-pen down on that marble-topped table there, and a cheque for the million dollars!'

Martin fanned himself with his Homburg hat.

'Gee whiz!' he murmured. 'Sounds like a fairy-tale.'

'Here in Monte Carlo,' Mr. Westthrop went on, 'where I don't suppose there's a soul thinking of business, or any part of it, sitting out here in the sunshine, he makes me a proposition which would simply revolutionize the corset industry. A certified cheque, too, mind, to stuff into my waistcoat pocket for a million dollars—just pocket-money! It's my belief, too, he followed me here. It's the one thing in his brain just now—to crush Hodgson.'

'What are you going to do about it?' I inquired.

'I asked for twenty-four hours to think it over,' Mr. Westthrop replied. 'To tell you the truth, I wanted to get away. The fellow has such an infernal influence over you, sitting there with a face like a bit of metal, talking coldly of millions, and convincing one all the time that everything he said was sound common sense. I felt like a baby that didn't know its own mind, that was refusing its food when it was hungry. All I wanted to do was to get away. We are going to meet here to-morrow at the same time.'

Martin nodded.

'Dollars ain't everything, James,' he observed impressively.

Mr. Westthrop patted the back of his young friend's hand.

'I've got my bit, Edmund,' he said. 'I shan't spend my little lot in this world, and there's plenty for them that come after. Silas Frayne's used to buying men like cattle. He's up against it this time for once in his life. I've got my answer ready for him and he won't like it. He isn't going to smash Hodgson through me.'

The two men suddenly gripped hands across the table. I am not an emotional person, and the world of business is a sealed book to me, but when I strolled away, a few moments later, I was conscious of something tike a lump in my own throat....

About eleven o'clock that evening my sister and I, who had been dining with some friends, strolled across into the Sporting Club. Seated on one of the divans there, exactly opposite the door, was Martin. He greeted us almost eagerly.

'Say, have you seen anything of James Westthrop?' he inquired.

I shook my head.

'We've been dining at the Metropole.' I told him.

Our young friend's face was full of trouble.

'Most extraordinary thing.' he declared. 'We got back to the hotel soon after six and I went across the Square to the English tailor's. James was to meet me in half an hour at the American bar. I waited for him, sent up to his room, sent all round the hotel. But not a sign of him! I went across to Ciro's bar, although we always have our first in the hotel. They hadn't seen him. I've been up to his room. His things were all laid out for dinner but there was no sign of his having been there at all. No one remembers having seen him even enter the hotel.'

'Where did you leave him?' I asked curiously.

'On the steps just outside the hotel. As I turned away he seemed on the point of entering.'

'And you haven't seen him since that moment?'

'That's so,' Martin admitted. 'I've just been back to the hotel. His room was exactly the same and I can't find a soul who has set eyes upon him.'

'It doesn't seem like Mr. Westthrop,' I remarked, puzzled. 'He was rather a methodical person, wasn't he?'

'He was that,' Martin assented. 'A man more regular in his habits than James I never met. We did the same things day by day as though by clockwork. Change at a quarter-past six, first cocktail at a quarter to seven, over to Ciro's at seven for number two, and then decide about dinner. We've never varied the programme by even five minutes.'

'Has he any other friends?' I inquired. 'He may have gone out with them and left word for you to follow, and the note may have miscarried.'

'James didn't know a soul here,' Martin assured me. 'He was just as miserable as could be before we met that morning on the terrace.'

My sister had settled down to play chemin de fer with some friends, but Martin's distress was so apparent that I hadn't the heart to leave him.

'Let's go back to the hotel,' I suggested,' and set some more inquiries going.'

Martin acquiesced with alacrity and until midnight we hunted in vain for Mr. Westthrop, finishing up with a visit to the police station. The official in charge there was most polite but profoundly uninterested. That a gentleman should not have returned home to change for dinner and was still unaccounted for at midnight in Monte Carlo, was a thing which called for absolutely no comment. He bowed us out with a little assurance that we should doubtless soon hear of our missing friend.

On our return to the hotel. I accompanied Martin myself to the room which James Westthrop had been occupying. Although secretly I was very much of the same mind as the police official, there was yet something a little strange about the neatness of that undisturbed apartment, the clothes waiting to be put on, the boots standing side by side, the tie, collar, and handkerchief arranged upon the dressing-table.

'I tell you, Colonel,' Martin declared miserably, for the twentieth time, 'that James isn't the sort of chap to do a thing like this of his own accord. He knew very well exactly how we were going to spend the evening. Something must have happened to him.'

'But, my dear boy, after all, what could happen to him?' I asked. 'There's certain to be some silly explanation for it all. Monte Carlo at six o'clock in the evening, to a man like your friend Mr. Westthrop, is just as safe as, and safer than Piccadilly Circus.'

'That's all right, Colonel,' my young friend admitted dismally,' but where is he, anyway?'

As that was a question which I could not possibly answer, I left him a short time later and went back to the Sporting Club to look after my sister. When we returned, about two o'clock, Martin was still sitting in the hall, looking the picture of misery.

'No luck?' I ventured.

'None!' he groaned.

'You take my advice and go to bed,' I begged him. 'There's nothing else you can do.'

Martin shook his head gloomily.

'I guess I'll stay here,' he replied. 'They know what I'm waiting for in the office. If they get any message, I'll be on hand. I couldn't sleep, anyway.'

We left him there reluctantly, and there I believe he remained for the greater part of the night. The next morning was a repetition of the previous evening, except that every one of the usual haunts of the two men had now been thoroughly explored. We tried the police station again, and this time the official admitted that the case began to wear a curious aspect, and condescended not only to take notes of our statement hut to send an officer up to the hotel. His inquiries, however, absolutely failed to throw any light upon this mysterious affair.

We gave up our morning to Martin and provided him with the best luncheon we could think of, but he ate and drank mechanically. In spirits he was only the shadow of his former self. As we crossed the Square on our way hack to the hotel someone touched me on the arm. I turned around. It was Mr. Brooks, Mr. Frayne's secretary, and a few yards away Mr. Frayne was seated in a familiar attitude, looking out across the Square with sightless eyes and leaning a little forward upon his stick.

'Do you happen to know where Mr. Westthrop is just now?' Mr. Brooks inquired.

'I'd damned well like to!' Martin exclaimed. 'We haven't seen or heard a thing of him since last evening.'

Mr. Brooks seemed annoyed.

'That's all very well,' he said, 'but your friend promised faithfully that he would meet Mr. Frayne here again at three o'clock this afternoon. Mr. Frayne isn't used to people who break their appointments. I beg you, sir, as a friend of Mr. Westthrop, to make an effort to find him.'

'Find him?' Martin thundered, enjoying the full luxury of losing his temper. 'What sort of a gol-darned idiot do you think I am? I tell you that from half-past six last evening until now, I have done little else except search for James Westthrop. I left him whilst I went to the tailor's, and arranged to meet him at half-past six in the bar. He never came. He never went back to his room to change his clothes. He has disappeared, in fact. And now you ask me to hurry him along for Mr. Frayne as though I knew where he was: Damn Mr. Frayne!'

The secretary was obviously more interested.

'I beg your pardon, I'm sure,' he said. 'I just thought that he was keeping out of the way because he had already answered Mr. Frayne's propositions and did not care to discuss the matter further. Have you been to the police station?'

'We have, sir, twice,' I assured him, 'and the police have the case in hand at the present moment.'

'Would you be so very kind,' Mr. Brooks begged, 'as to stay where you are for one minute?'

We acquiesced—I don't know why—and the secretary returned to his master's side. In a moment or two he hurried hack to us.

'Mr. Frayne would be obliged if you would speak to him,' he announced.

We crossed the road. Mr. Frayne did not move his head as we approached, yet directly we were within speaking distance he addressed us.

'My secretary has told me a strange story as to Mr. Westthrop's disappearance,' he began in a thin, metallic tone.

I explained the situation. When I had finished, Mr. Frayne turned his head slightly.

'You do not believe, then,' he asked, 'that he is keeping out of the way?'

'Nor any such damned silly nonsense!' Martin retorted. 'James Westthrop isn't the man to keep out of anyone's way. If there was a difficulty ahead, he tackled it in a straightforward fashion.'

'But Monte Carlo is full of attractions for a certain type of man,' Mr. Frayne continued cynically.

'Well, James Westthrop wasn't that type, and that's all there is to say about it,' Martin declared. 'If he'd wanted to go on the spree—why, we'd have gone on it together, he and I. There's nothing of that sort happened.'

'Your story, on the face of it, is a remarkable one,' Mr. Frayne observed. 'You say that you left Mr. Westthrop on the steps of the Hôtel de Paris soon after six last evening, that he had arranged to meet you within half an hour, and that no one has seen him since?'

'That's the long and short of it,' Martin admitted. 'It's a busy hour at the hotel and the hall porter can't remember either seeing him come in or go out. The only thing is that he never went to the bureau for his key, so it don't look as though he went up to his room at all.'

'In which case,' Mr. Frayne remarked, 'he could not even have received any message or telegram.'

'That is so,' Martin agreed.

Mr. Frayne rose to his feet. His secretary hurried over with outstretched arm.

'Of late years,' Mr. Frayne said, 'I know of no one who has failed to keep an appointment with me, and I should not in any ordinary case give anyone a second opportunity. The circumstances, however, are extraordinary. Will you be so good, Mr. Martin, as to beg your friend, when he does return, to favour me with a note?'

'When he does return,' Martin echoed gloomily.

The two men moved off. Mr. Frayne, who offered no farewell greeting, walked slowly and with short, nervous steps. They entered an automobile which was waiting, and drove off towards Monaco.

'That man's obituary notice,' Martin declared bitterly, 'will make pleasant reading for me! I say, Colonel, couldn't I wire to Paris for a private detective?'

'I should wait another twelve hours,' I suggested.

'Come down to the police station once more with me, then,' he begged.

I consented at once. The official there received us with his usual politeness and glanced at a paper by his side.

'We have made some inquiries,' he announced, addressing me. 'Mr. James Westthrop was, without doubt, on the threshold of the Hôtel de Paris according to your information. Ten minutes later he was seen crossing the road with a lady.'

'With a what?' Martin gasped.

The official smiled the smile of one who knows his world.

'With a lady,' he repeated.

'What was she like?' my young companion demanded, almost fiercely.

The official shrugged his shoulders.

'She was not known to the police. She was well dressed and young.'

'And after that?'

'Messieurs,' the police official concluded dryly, 'our inquiries are still being prosecuted, but there are many villas around Monte Carlo, and many beautiful ladies who are charmingly hospitable. We have laid before us several hundred inquiries as to the disappearance of wealthy gentlemen for a time from their hotels, and the final result has been always the same. Your friend Mr. Westthrop will, without doubt, return, full of apologies for the trouble he has given you.'

Martin almost flung himself out of the place.

'A lady, indeed!' he muttered. 'Jim Westthrop to give me the go-by like that!'

'Couldn't have been his wife who had turned up unexpectedly, could it?' I ventured.

Martin considered the idea thoughtfully. To some extent I think that the suggestion appealed to him.

'You must remember,' I pointed out, 'that you've made rather a different man of Mr. Westthrop since his arrival. If his wife is one of those very religious ladies who abominate Monte Carlo and everything that it stands for, if she came here and found him dressed as you've dressed him and enraptured with the place, she might try very hard to take him right away without letting him even say good-bye.'

'It don't seem probable,' Martin objected, 'but if James Westthrop had one weak point, it was his tendency to being ruled by that wife of his. He's as easily led as a child.'

'It was just about the time that the train came in,' I pointed out. 'Look through your letters when you get back to the hotel. You haven't opened any to-day.'

Martin piloted me back at a pace which left me breathless. He tore through his neglected correspondence. It was all in vain, however. There was nothing from Mr. Westthrop. He made his usual inquiry in the office. The clerk shook his head. Nothing had been heard of their missing client. There was the little matter of the
bill—.

'I'll pay it,' Martin promised quickly. 'Keep the room. Keep everything just as it is.'

My young friend continued to behave like a cow which has lost its calf. He wandered and mooned about the place in an utterly aimless fashion. He forgot his regular hours for cocktails, he forgot even to smoke. My sister and I found it very difficult to do anything with him. Just as I was getting ready for dinner that night, however, he came unexpectedly up to my room. There was a change in his expression.

'Colonel,' he asked wistfully,' what are you doing this evening?'

'Nothing special,' I replied. 'Mary and I were going to have a little dinner downstairs and a quiet evening.'

'Could you come with me on a wild-goose chase?'

There was something so pathetic about the way he asked me that I never hesitated for a moment.

'I'm your man,' I agreed. 'I'll come right away, if you like. Mary would just as soon have dinner in her room, and as a matter of fact I ate far too much for luncheon.'

'Finish your dressing and come along down, then,' he begged.

'I am ready now,' I told him. 'I'll just let Mary know.'

My sister agreed most readily to my suggested desertion. I took Martin by the arm and led him to the bar, where he drank a Scotch whisky-and-soda with the first sign of relish I had noticed for many hours. He even murmured some approving word concerning the quality of the whisky.

'Colonel,' he said, as we turned away, 'you'll laugh at me but I've a queer idea in my head. I want you to come down to the harbour with me.'

'That's all right,' I agreed. 'I'll come anywhere you say.'

We took an automobile down to the quay. Martin led me at a most uncomfortable pace along the roughly-paved stoneway. He pointed with his finger to where, about a couple of hundred yards out, lay Silas Frayne's magnificent yacht, the Iris.

'Colonel,' he said,'that's where I believe James Westthrop is.'

Incredulity, I suppose, was written in my face. Martin took my arm.

'Look here. Colonel,' he began earnestly, 'it sounds rotten, I know, but then isn't the whole thing rotten? James Westthrop must be somewhere. As to the police commissioner's idea that he is hiding up in one of those villas with a lady, I tell you that's a damned lie. It's simply because the fellow's speaking of a man he knows nothing of. James couldn't do it. He has disappeared. Whom does he know in Monte Carlo? Who's interested in him? No one except this chap Frayne, and Silas Frayne's interested enough to offer him a great fortune for a simple thing which he won't do.'

I looked across the glittering waters of the harbour towards the yacht.

'That's all very well, you know,' I protested; 'but they couldn't carry him off against his will.'

'No; but there might be a dozen ways of getting him down here peaceably,' Martin rejoined. 'Once on board, why shouldn't they be able to keep him, if they cared to run the risk? Silas Frayne's a martinet wherever he goes. I bet that every one of those men on board is trained down to the knuckle to absolute and implicit obedience.'

I struggled with the British common sense which told me that the idea of such an abduction was absurd. I tried, instead, to enter into my young friend's point of view.

'It sounds absurd,' I said; 'but then, as you point out, the whole thing is inexplicable. What do you propose doing?'

'Can you row, by any chance?' Martin asked.

'Certainly,' I assured him.

'I thought,' he explained eagerly, 'that we might take a boat—no lights, you see—and row quietly round the yacht and see if anything seems suspicious at all. People are always about in small boats in the harbour, and I don't think we should be noticed.'

'That's all right,' I agreed. 'Come on down the steps and find a boat.'

We hired a safe but clumsy-looking craft without difficulty and, taking the oars, I rowed slowly in the direction of the Iris. It was a dark evening but there were other boats about and we were able to draw in quite close without attracting attention. We rowed along the whole of the starboard side of the vessel. Just as we were turning around I heard a little cry from my companion.

'My God!' he exclaimed. 'What's that?'

I rested on my oars. I, too, had received the same impression. For a single moment, at one of the open port-holes, we had both caught a glimpse of a white face, gone again almost as soon as it had appeared.

'James?' Martin called softly.

There was no answer. Suddenly the port-hole was shut with a snap. Martin wiped the perspiration from his forehead.

'Gee whiz!' he muttered. 'I was right! They've got him there.'

I pulled the boat around with a few quick strokes. Darting out from the quay came a little pinnace. The canvas gangway was let down. Sailors seemed to appear from everywhere.

'It's Silas Frayne coming back,' my companion whispered. 'Keep out of sight.'

We remained in the shadow of the ship. We even watched Silas Frayne, a grim, motionless figure in the stern, watched him assisted on board by his secretary and disappear.

'What shall I do?' I asked. 'Shall I hail her?'

Martin shook his head.

'Row straight back, Colonel. I'll tell you something as we go.'

I obeyed him without hesitation. Martin leaned towards me.

'I've taken this for granted,' he said hoarsely. 'I've hired the Firefly there,'—pointing to another yacht a little distance down the harbour. 'I've found an English skipper who isn't going to ask questions. You see, he's got steam up, waiting for us, and the gangway down. Row straight for her. One of her men can take this tub back.'

I obeyed. I think that by this time I was almost as excited as my companion. We boarded the yacht which he had hired, and I found to my satisfaction that not only was the captain English but also the majority of the crew. She had been hired in Liverpool, it seemed, by a man who had been taken ill in Monte Carlo and paid forfeit for the rest of his cruise.

We explained to the captain what we wanted, and as soon as the Iris weighed anchor we followed her out. Directly we were clear of the harbour we extinguished all lights, steaming at the slowest possible speed. In about a couple of hours' time we had glided alongside the Iris, now anchored about three miles out. It was a dark night, and we were soon so close that the sound of voices was distinctly audible. We were promptly challenged.

'Who are you?'

'Steam yacht Firefly,' was our captain's answer.

'Where are your lights, and what are you doing alongside?'

'Owner's orders.'

'Who is your owner?'

No answer. The captain of the Iris, with a megaphone in his hand, repeated the question.

'What the devil are you doing in so close?' he shouted. 'If we swing round we shall foul you.'

'We're on the look-out.' was the reply. 'Tide's setting the other way.'

'But what do you want here, anyhow?'

There was a momentary silence. Then our captain replied:

'Send your owner up and we'll tell him.'

Now for the last hour—since we had been clear of the harbour, in fact—I had seen nothing whatever of Martin, as I had been on the bridge with the captain. I suddenly discovered him, coatless and hatless, a cigar in his mouth, standing by the side of a small, antiquated-looking cannon. The deck all around him was strewn with ammunition.

'Gee whiz! Such a find, old fellow!' he declared. 'We've loaded it.'

'It'll burst,' I warned him, looking at it doubtfully.

'Not it,' Martin assured me confidently. 'They've been using it regularly for signals. It's a kind of mortar. Anyway, I've found a chap who understands it—been used to letting it off. He's standing by now. I've promised him—eh, what's that?'

The captain leaned down from the bridge.

'The owner of the Iris—Mr. Frayne—wishes to speak to you, sir.'

Martin ran up the steps lightly. He stood with his hand on the rail. Very dimly across the little gulf of sea we could see the tall, straight figure of Mr. Frayne, hatless and attired in evening clothes.

'Are you the owner of that yacht?' he asked.

'I am, sir,' Martin replied.

'What is your name?'

'Edmund H. Martin,' was the answer.

There was a moment's silence. Peering intently through the twilight, I fancied I could see Mr. Frayne start.

'Will you explain what you mean, Mr. Martin, by following me out from the harbour and sailing your boat without lights?' Mr. Frayne demanded.

'I want my friend—Mr. James Westthrop of Springfield,' Martin announced.

'I know nothing of your friend,' was the calm reply.

'You're a liar,' Martin thundered, 'because I saw his face at a port-hole before you left the harbour, two hours ago. If you don't hand him over to me, I'll have your yacht searched by the police.'

Mr. Frayne emitted a little sound from his lips which might have been a laugh.

'What police will catch my yacht,' he asked, 'if I point her to Africa to-night?'

'You'll point her to hell,' Martin retorted, 'if you don't hand over my friend!'

'Your friend,' Mr. Frayne declared, 'is not on board.'

'Then let me tell you again,' Martin roared, 'that you're a liar! I haven't come out here to threaten only. If you don't agree to give up Mr. James Westthrop in thirty seconds, I'll blow a hole in that wonderful yacht of yours.'

Once more Mr. Frayne laughed mirthlessly. 'What with, my young friend?'

'Arc you sending James Westthrop on board?' Martin persisted.

Silas Frayne was eloquently and contemptuously silent. Martin turned and ran down the steps. He and the amateur gunner worked for a moment at the little cannon. Then they both moved back. There followed in another minute the most appalling noise I have ever heard. Martin, who in his eagerness had taken up a position not quite far enough away, sat down hard upon the deck. A sailor who was passing, and who shared the same fate, seemed to look upon the affair as a personal affront, and was with difficulty persuaded from prompt reprisals upon the amateur gunner. But on the Iris the result was far beyond our expectations.

A portion of the beautiful white railing was torn away, half a dozen luxurious steamer-chairs were practically destroyed, all the windows of the smoke-room were smashed, and one could see the mahogany door torn almost to splinters. Dense clouds of smoke hung around and the smell of gunpowder was overpowering. The yells, too, of mingled abuse and imprecations, from the other yacht, were almost deafening. Martin struggled to his feet. His grin was one of sweet and holy satisfaction.

'That's worth a ten-pound note to you, my boy,' he promised the sailor, who was looking a little frightened. 'Charge her up again. That's right. Ram the stuff into her.'

By degrees the confusion on the Iris subsided. One gathered that someone in authority was insisting upon silence. The captain spoke through a megaphone from the bridge.

'Mr. Frayne wishes to speak to Mr. Martin.'

Martin climbed the bridge once more, wiping the perspiration from his forehead. Mr. Frayne stood opposite to him.

'Are you a madman, sir?' the latter shouted.

'I'm not so mad as you will be if you don't give me up my friend Mr. James Westthrop of Springfield,' Martin replied at the top of his voice. 'We're loading up again—a double charge this time. There's no telling what'll happen to you when you get this little lot.'

Mr. Frayne stood quite still for a moment. Then he turned on his heel.

'Sheer off a little,' he said. 'I will send Mr. Westthrop on board. Keep that infernal machine of yours silent unless you want a gunboat out after us.'

'I'll give you five minutes,' Martin called out. 'We've got it trained on your cabin.'

Mr. Frayne looked over his shoulder.

'You've taught me a lesson, young man,' he declared. 'I shall never come to sea again without a couple of Maxims!'

'What you do next time I don't care,' Martin retorted. 'My popgun's good enough for you this journey, anyway.'

Mr. Frayne turned away. We heard him giving some orders. We saw the canvas gangway let down, and immediately followed suit with our own. In less than a minute a boat was lowered. A single hesitating figure came down the gangway steps, supported by a sailor. The boat pushed off towards us, and the lights from the saloon flashed upon the upturned face of the solitary passenger.

'My God!' Martin exclaimed. 'We've got him.'

We almost dragged Mr. Westthrop out of the boat and escorted him, one on either side, down to the saloon. He seemed paler and thinner than ever, and our speech for the first few minutes consisted of nothing but staccato exclamations. It was not until Mr. Westthrop, who was still extraordinarily nervous and seemed to speak with some difficulty, had drained the tumblerful of whisky-and-soda which I had been mixing that we even asked him a coherent question.

'James, my boy,' Martin demanded at length, 'how on earth did he get you aboard there?'

Mr. Westthrop sat up in his chair. Already he was looking better.

'Kind of long story,' he began weakly. 'You know when you left me on the steps of the hotel? Well, a lady came up to me, said would I speak to Mr. Frayne for a moment in his automobile? I stepped round the corner with her. Silas Frayne was there all right, and Ned Brooks. Mr. Frayne asked me to drive as far as the harbour with him. He had a proposition to make—something that would let Hodgson out, too. I said something about meeting you, but they promised the car should bring me back in ten minutes. I sat down between them, and suddenly, while Mr. Frayne was talking, I felt a faint prick in my arm. A hypodermic needle it must have been. I didn't remember anything else until I was on board the yacht.'

He pulled up his sleeve. There was a little blue mark upon his arm. Both Martin and I were speechless.

'When I began to take notice,' Mr. Westthrop continued, 'I was in a state-room on the yacht and the door was locked. Frayne came in to see me as soon as I rang the bell. "Old-fashioned methods, Mr. Westthrop," he said, "but here are all the papers. You only have to sign them, give me time to send them ashore, and I'll take you for one of the pleasantest cruises you ever had in your life, find you plenty of cheerful company, and, in short, see that you enjoy yourself. Just a matter of three weeks, that's all, while things are being put through. I'm taking no advantage of you," he went on,"—giving you everything I ever offered. But," he wound up, "no man has ever stood in my way for long successfully. You'll go underneath if you don't sign those papers, and the man who takes your place won't be so difficult, perhaps."'

Martin clenched his fists and opened his mouth three times, but his vocabulary failed him. Nothing, however, could have been more impressive than his silence. As for me, I felt impelled to pinch myself. Nothing in my hitherto well-regulated and uneventful life had prepared me for such adventures as this.

'I wasn't having any,' Mr. Westthrop proceeded, 'and I told Frayne so, just as eloquently as I could. They kept me there shut up, and this morning they pricked me again with that damned needle. I was unconscious afterwards for hours. Frayne had thought it all out. No one would believe my story of having been kept there on the yacht against my will. They were all ready to swear that I came on board drunk. He's got some women there, and a band, and though he's such an ascetic himself, he was ready to turn the cruise into a carouse for the rest of us at any time. It was a dangerous game, perhaps, but he reckoned that the chances were ten to one I should sign, and, if I had, no one would ever have believed my story afterwards.... Say, Edmund, old chap, you're only a youngster but you're the right sort. You're your father over again....'

Martin's presents to his friend the amateur gunner and the other members of the crew were of such nature that they cheered us when he alighted at the quay, and cheered us until the automobile which drove us back to the hotel was out of hearing. I alighted first and we all three passed into the entrance hall together. Martin glanced at the clock and took his friend's arm affectionately.

'James,' he said, 'it's five minutes to eleven. I think we'll have a bite as soon as we can get it. And meanwhile—' he added insinuatingly.

'I'm with you,' Mr. Westthrop assented heartily.</story>