<story title="THE STINK WIZARD" date="1925">
The Marquis was in an evil humour. Neither the sight of that tactfully proffered aperitif, nor his niece's ingratiating smile, produced the slightest effect upon him. He had worked himself up into this state and he meant to remain angry.

"Four months ago," he declared, thumping the little table before him with his fist, "you, my friend Billingham, joined company with my niece and myself in a partnership—an unwritten partnership, perhaps, but nevertheless a partnership— which was to be devoted to our mutual gain. I make myself clear?"

"Perfectly," Mr. Billingham assented.

"We embarked upon various enterprises," the Marquis continued, "and met with some success, but lately, what do we do? We rescue a foolish middle-aged man from the clutches of an adventuress. Not one penny comes to our exchequer. We help a young disabled soldier to carry out a delicate mission. Again not a penny! I ask you how long it is to continue? You others may have sources of wealth unknown to me," he went on, casting a suspicious glance at Mr. Billingham. "As for me, I am penniless. I must live as a gentleman needs to live. How am I to do it, I ask you? You, my friend Billingham, tell me that the common funds are exhausted. My niece here has not even a hundred francs to advance. What then, I ask you, is the use of our partnership? You two amuse yourselves whilst I starve."

Mr. Billingham scratched his chin. He seemed disposed to take a lenient view of the other's demeanour.

"There is some sense in what you are saying, Marquis," he admitted. "At the same time, you might remember that your niece and I saved the money we made in one or two little affairs, whereas you"

He pointed eloquently towards the Casino. The Marquis sat forward in his chair.

"Listen, then," he interrupted. "I am not a man to accuse a friend of ill- faith. If you assure me that you still maintain your suite at the Hotel de Paris, your manner of living here, your flowers to my niece, your champagne at our dinners, on the profits of those adventures in which we have been mutually concerned, then you are a very wonderful man. But I will be open. It seems to me that you have been engaged in other enterprises in which we have not been included."

"As to that," Mr. Billingham protested, "you are dead wrong. I may have come into a little bit of my own, but it hasn't been through anything that's happened out here. You're for business again, I take it, Marquis?"

"I have seventeen francs and forty centimes in the world," was the bitter reply.

Mr. Billingham looked at his watch.

"This morning," he announced, "I shall provide luncheon at the Hotel de Paris. Afterwards you shall both come to my rooms. I will then propound a scheme by means of which some temporary relief may be afforded us."

"Dear, clever man," Madelon murmured. "I have known for two days—since I saw you talking so earnestly with that terrible little Austrian —that something was coming."

"I have an idea," Mr. Billingham acknowledged, "but whether it will result in financial profit or not it is impossible at present to say. I guess we might as well try it out, anyway."

In Mr. Billingham's sitting-room, an hour later, the Marquis and Madelon, on their arrival, found their host indulging in intimate conversation with a black-haired and bespectacled foreigner whom he introduced as Doctor Ludwig Stranz. The Doctor, who spoke English with a very guttural accent, was a man of heavy build and coarse features, untidily dressed and besprinkled with cigar ash. He was cordial but without any grace of manner.

"Friends of Mr. Billingham," he declared, "I make myself glad to know. This is a beastly place. You perhaps haf gained money."

"I most certainly have not," the Marquis rejoined. "Do I gather that you too are a gambler, Doctor Stranz?"

"I am a scientist," was the verbose reply. "I have discovered many wonderful things in my day, though many of my discoveries have been stolen from me and used to their profits by others. I have been to Paris with an idea of my own—useless! Then I come here. I meet my good friend Mr. Billingham. It was he who once found me money for a little invention of mine."

"That was in the days when I had some," Mr. Billingham explained hastily!—"before linoleum went back on me."

"Ah, that was a pity that you lose your money," Doctor Stranz declared. "It is a great invention this of mine now. Even when put to so ridiculous a use"

"That will do," Mr. Billingham interrupted abruptly. "We will meet as arranged this afternoon, Doctor Stranz. Better perhaps come five minutes before the time arranged and meet me here. We can go through our plans once more so that there need be no mistake."

"It is so arranged," Doctor Stranz agreed, rising to his feet a little reluctantly. "I go to my lonely breakfast."

It was a hint of which Mr. Billingham took not the slightest notice. They all three watched him depart.

"What an extraordinary man!" Madelon exclaimed.

"He is perhaps concerned with the enterprise you spoke of," the Marquis suggested eagerly.

"He is a necessary part of it," Mr. Billingham assented. "But I warn you there is no certainty about this enterprise. It may come off—it may not. At any rate it is my affair. No one else— though I shall rely upon your help—will be likely to meet with trouble."

"The thought that there is an enterprise to be considered at all," the Marquis declared with satisfaction, "gives to my luncheon an increased appetite. I suggest a descent."

Madelon, who was looking in the mirror, sighed.

"I should like some one to admire my hat," she observed, readjusting it a little.

"Its only fault,"' Mr. Billingham suggested, "is that it hides too much of your face."

"Its only fault that I can see," the Marquis groaned, "is that it cost too much money." Madelon made a little grimace.

"Skinflint!" she exclaimed. "I made it myself!" At four o'clock that afternoon, just as the Salons de Jeux of the Sporting Club were opened, one of the liveried footmen attached to the place announced to Monsieur Louchette, the manager, who was seated in his office, a visit from Mr. Billingham and a friend. Mr Billingham, being a person who during the four months of his sojourn in Monte Carlo had established himself as an habitué of some consequence, the manager abandoned his habits of almost papal seclusion and intimated his willingness to receive the two gentlemen. The door was thrown open and they accordingly presented themselves.

"I'd like you," Mr. Billingham said, having shaken hands, "to meet my friend, Doctor Stranz, who has been staying here for a while."

Doctor Stranz bowed and shook hands solemnly. The manager regarded him with some curiosity.

"Ach, what a place!" the former exclaimed. Monsieur Louchette cleared his throat.

"I trust you have enjoyed your stay here, Doctor," he remarked. "What can I have the pleasure of doing for you, gentlemen?"

"For me nothing," Mr. Billingham replied. "My friend the Doctor, whom I met in New York during the war, just asked me to introduce him. If you gentlemen have business to talk over I guess I'll leave you to it."

The manager looked at Doctor Stranz and disliked him.

"No need for you to leave us, Mr. Billingham," he declared hastily. "What can I do for you, sir?" he added, turning to his companion.

Doctor Stranz sat down ponderously, placing the small black bag which he was carrying with him by his side.

"Sir," he announced, "I haf met with great misfortunes here. I haf lost heavily. I haf lost all my beautiful money."

"Indeed," Monsieur Louchette remarked coldly. "If your business here is simply to tell me this"

"It is not," Doctor Stranz interrupted. "I would haf you know all of the situation. I come here with one hundred thousand francs—money which has been paid me for my marvellous inventions. I am a great inventor. There is no one who has such a brain as mine. I make everything that blow up. With a projectile as big as a pea I could destroy the Palais at Versailles or the Reichstag in Berlin."

"Very wonderful, I am sure," the manager observed a little impatiently, "but you will excuse me if I remark that I am busy."

"Ach, busy!" Doctor Stranz repeated, leaning over and striking the edge of the table before which the other was seated. "You may be busy but you must listen to me. One.—more than one hundred thousand francs of my hard- earned money I have lost here. Something must be done for me."

Monsieur Louchette looked at Mr. Billingham as though to ask whether the man were a lunatic.

Mr. Billingham shook his head.

"I had not received," he said, "the slightest intimation as to what the Doctor was wanting. He simply asked for an introduction. I am sorry I brought him if he is a nuisance. Perhaps I had better leave you alone."

"Not on any account," the manager begged. "You are sure that the man is sane?" he added, under his breath.

"Sane I am, but insane soon I shall be," the Doctor thundered. "Now I shall show you whether I am a man of sense or not. I will talk to you plainly. I want my money back."

"If you wish us to make an advance to cover your return fare home and reasonable hotel expenses," the manager suggested, drawing a form towards him, "you can make application for a viatique which will receive due consideration. You of course understand, however, that you will not be allowed in the rooms again until the amount is repaid."

"I want my money back," Doctor Stranz repeated doggedly. "One hundred and forty thousand francs—that is just what I want."

"You are wasting my time," Monsieur Louchette declared quietly. "Permit me to wish you good-afternoon."

The official's forefinger strayed towards the bell which stood upon his desk. Doctor Stranz reached out his hand. Something in his expression induced the other to pause.

"I have told you," he said, "that I must have back my one hundred and forty thousand francs. I have not told you what I shall do if you refuse."

"A threat!" the manager exclaimed.

"If you refuse I promise you this," the Doctor continued earnestly. "At eleven o'clock to-night this place will be—is it not so—packed with people. At five minutes past eleven you shall find them in the streets, on the promenade perhaps, the pavements, on the stairway, everywhere—but not in those rooms—not in those rooms, I promise you."

Monsieur Louchette looked towards Mr. Billingham who nodded sympathetically, and, unseen by the Doctor, tapped his forehead. The manager smiled tolerantly.

"Well, well," he said, "I am sorry for you, Doctor Stranz, but you must see that there is no reason why I should return your money any more than anybody else's. There are dozens and scores here every season who lose more than you have done. You must come back next year and hope for better luck."

"Will I haf back again my one hundred and forty thousand francs?" Doctor Stranz demanded.

"Of course not," was the firm reply. "Your friend Mr. Billingham will explain to you the absurdity of such a suggestion. You will permit me."

This time the manager succeeded in reaching the bell. Doctor Stranz rose stiffly to his feet.

"Perhaps," he announced, "I will visit you again to-morrow morning."

"It will be quite useless," the manager assured him. "I wish you good- afternoon, gentlemen." A servant entered and held open the door. Mr. Billingham loitered behind.

"Say, I am sorry I brought him in," he apologised. "I had no idea he was luny. He was a bright fellow enough when I knew him. The war again, I suppose."

"Quite all right, Mr. Billingham," the other remarked a little patronisingly. "We are used to strange visitors."

The visit of the mad Austrian had almost passed out of the mind of the manager of the Sporting Club. Nevertheless at a few minutes before eleven he left his office and strolled through the Rooms. Late in the season though it was, they were still crowded, and with a somewhat brillianf gathering. There was an English Duke and an American millionaire playing in maximums at roulette, a noted Greek financier was taking a bank at baccarat, crowds of pretty and welldressed women and well-known men thronged the place. With a little frown the manager recognised Doctor Stranz seated next to a croupier. He summoned one of his deputies.

"That man's card of admission," he directed, pointing him out, "must be withdrawn. He is a madman and declares he has lost one hundred and forty thousand francs. Doctor Stranz his name is."

"I will see to it at once, sir," the deputy promised.

Eleven o'clock struck. Nothing happened. Suddenly, however, there was a little murmur. The people at the tables raised their heads. The loiterers in the room made for the doors. There was one expression upon every face—an expression of pained and physical distaste, which speedily became loathing. People who had strolled towards the exits commenced to hurry; others from the remote ends of the room pressed behind them. Finally the players at the tables with one accord rose to their feet, some of them clutching at the money in front of them, some of them abandoning it.

There seemed to be a faint white mist drifting about the room and becoming thicker every moment, and apparently from it there was emitted the most terrible, stupefying and noxious smell which ever greeted the nostrils of any human being. Every second it became stronger. The manager opened his mouth to give an order, but his lips were powerless. He rushed for the door with the others. In less than sixty seconds the passages leading into the Hotel de Paris and the stairway —luckily a broad one—leading into the street were packed with a seething mass of shrieking, coughing, half-fainting people. Two of the servants made an heroic effort to open the windows and fell overpowered. The occupants of the bar joined with the waiters in a mad rush down into the back quarters. Here and there a woman fainted. One man, black in the face with coughing, threw himself over the banisters on to the tables below. In an incredibly short space of time not a soul remained in the roulette room, except one. Doctor Stranz, with a respirator over his mouth, strange-looking spectacles, and flaps over his ears, looked around him with a smile half- satanic, half beatific.

"That was good," he said to himself. "Before, it was I who felt sick at heart in these rooms. Now, it is they who feel sick at the stomach!"

At a few minutes after ten o'clock on the following morning, the card of Monsieur Louchette, the manager of the Sporting Club, was brought in to Mr. Billingham, and Monsieur Louchette himself promptly followed. Mr. Billingham welcomed him with a grin.

"Say, that was some trick the Austrian played us!" he observed as he shook hands.

Monsieur Louchette was a man destitute of any sense of humour. For five minutes without ceasing he talked and Mr. Billingham listened in admiration.

"And then some," the latter remarked, when through sheer lack of breath his visitor became silent. "But say, to get down to business, what are you going to do about it?"

"The police search now for the rascal," Monsieur Louchette declared. "He shall be made to pay damages. He shall be imprisoned. Such an outrage has never before been known!"

Mr. Billingham stretched out his hand for a cigarette and thoughtfully lit it.

"I don't know how the law goes on this side," he remarked, "but in my country I'm not sure as it's a criminal offence to make a smell,—even if it could be proved that he did it."

Monsieur Louchette was off again. A smell! It was in such cold-blooded fashion that his friend Mr. Billingham could allude to the ghastliness of what had happened? There had been a soldier there who had declared that never in his worst experiences of the war, when they had been caught without masks, had anything so hideous crept into their nostrils. There were ladies lying sick in their rooms in every hotel in Monte Carlo. The lost property office was besieged by an endless stream of men and women who had thrown away everything to escape from this horror. And Mr. Billingham could call it "a smell"!

"It was nifty," Mr. Billingham admitted, when at last the manager had once more come to a pause. "I worked once in a tan-yard when I was a boy and I have been down in the hold of a Chinese yawl and I know San Francisco pretty well, but I guess the Doctor had all other smells beaten to a frazzle. Fortunately," he went on, "my young friend, Mademoiselle de Felan, and I were near one of the doors, and we got away slick. If it is a fair question, Monsieur Louchette, what do you really think you're going to do about the fellow?"

Monsieur Louchette's former eloquence seemed vapid compared to his present expressions. The mad Austrian, it appeared, was to be drowned in burning oil, guillotined and deported. In the midst of it all there was a modest knock at the door and Doctor Stranz was announced.

"I do not intrude, I trust," he said. "I wished for a word with my friend Mr. Billingham. Ah, it is Monsieur Louchette, the manager of the Sporting Club. Good-morning Monsieur Louchette. Are your rooms aired this morning, and what about my money?"

Monsieur Louchette sprang forward, but Mr. Billingham's firm arm restrained him. Nothing, however, could check the torrent of speech which proclaimed his opinion of the newcomer, his intentions with regard to him, and his certain future. Doctor Stranz listened with amusement.

"That policeman," he confided, "he has been to see me already, but what can I do? There was a smell in your rooms last night. Who knows that I made the smell, and, if I did, what is the law against one who makes a smell? Your policeman he has gone back to consult a judge. I have done nothing. I want my one hundred and forty thousand francs, but I have done nothing. If I get my money and I leave, perhaps there will be no more smells."

"Apart from everything else," Monsieur Louchette found breath to say, "there was money missing last night from the croupier's box near where you were seated."

Doctor Stranz drew himself up with dignity.

"I am a man of great honour," he declared. "I have never stolen from anybody. All that I took with me from the Club last night I won. Why do you not give me back my one hundred and forty thousand francs? Then I think there will be no more smells."

"You rascal!" Monsieur Louchette gasped. "You will never cross the portals of the Club again. Your name has a black mark against it for ever. Before the day is out you will be in prison."

"I think not," was the mild reply. "I think no man can go to prison in Monaco for making a smell—if I did. So you keep me out of the Sporting Club, eh? Listen, you give me my one hundred and forty thousand francs and I will leave tonight."

"I will see you in hell first!" Monsieur Louchette thundered.

"What a pity!" Doctor Stranz sighed. "Mind you, I do not say I have done anything, but I tell you this, there is not in the world any chemist so clever as I—not in the whole world, mind. You think once more."

Monsieur Louchette broke partially away from Mr. Billingham, and Doctor Stranz made for the door. On the threshold he looked back. "You make a mistake—a great mistake!" he called out, departing and slamming the door behind him.

"What do you know about that!" Mr. Billingham exclaimed.

Monsieur Louchette took up his hat.

"I came," he declared, "to ask if you could tell me anything more about this man."

Mr. Billingham shook his head.

"I can tell you that he was in charge of a poison gas factory during the war," he said. "I had a plant in the same city making aeroplane wings. That's how I came across him. 'The Stink Wizard' they called him."

"Do you suppose he has really lost one hundred thousand francs at the tables?" Monsieur Louchette asked abruptly.

Mr. Billingham shrugged his shoulders.

"I am not a heavy player myself," he replied. "I have seen him get through quite a pile, but I kept no tabs on him."

"Anyway," Monsieur Louchette remarked with satisfaction, "he won't get to the Sporting Club to-night."

"I guess there are a good many others who won't either," Mr. Billingham opined.

Mr. Billingham and Madelon dined alone that evening. The latter was a little nervous; Mr. Billingham inclined to be facetious.

"This afternoon," he announced, "I have been to the Law Library up at Monaco with an interpreter. So far as I can see the penalties against a maker of smells are purely nominal."

"There are other things," Madelon reminded him. "I hear Monsieur Louchette complains that a great deal of money was taken."

"Doctor Stranz assures me that he did not take anything with him except what he won," Mr. Billingham declared. "I guess he was telling the truth."

"What did Monsieur Louchette say this morning?" Madelon enquired.

Mr. Billingham grinned.

"If the Doctor had not made a somewhat inopportune arrival in my rooms," he replied, "I'm dead sure that with careful handling, Louchette would have opened his pockets. As it was he lost his temper, but if to-night—well, we shall see! I hear there are twenty-four detectives in the Club and if Doctor Stranz tries to put in an appearance there will be trouble. Fortunately he won't."

"I shall be glad," Madelon sighed, "when he is out of existence altogether."

"Don't say that," Mr. Billingham begged. "He has given a little colour to a somewhat dull period. Besides which he promises to be an extremely profitable creation."

"Money, always money!" she sighed. "I wonder whether I am getting tired of being an adventuress."

He looked at her a little wistfully.

"There is another world," he said quietly—"a world where pleasure is less of a business, perhaps, and happiness"

"You are going to make me sentimental," she interrupted. "Come, we must have our coffee and it is time that we went."

"The first table to the left in the 'Kitchen,'" Mr. Billingham reminded her firmly. "I shall meet you in the gardens—the seat I showed you. You have—everything?"

She nodded.

"Do you not see in how careful a fashion I am carrying, my bag?" she asked.

A small crowd of detectives awaited developments in the Sporting Club that evening and a lackey stood by each window. Nothing whatever happened. At half-past eleven, however, the events of the night before were repeated with even more terrifying consequences in both the Casino and the Salons Prives. Precautions had been taken here also with regard to the windows, but the spread of the fumes was too rapid and stupefying to allow of more than one or two being opened. The crowds which thronged the two rooms gave even more poignant evidences of terror and panic than the visitors to the Sporting Club on the previous evening. Several croupiers attempted to keep their places but fell forward in a moment or two overpowered. As a safeguard the various exits to the Salons Prives had all been thrown open and from here the flight, although precipitate, was conducted with a certain amount of order. The Marquis, who had been seated next to a croupier at one of the end tables, seemed to have possessed himself of some of the perquisites of the absent Doctor Stranz. At the first symptoms of alarm he slipped a respirator over his mouth, spectacles over his eyes and flaps over his ears. He sat there, watching the scene for a few moments with every appearance of interest. To his amazement, notwithstanding the general exodus, two women, who had been playing on the other side of the table, also remained in their seats, although they gazed around them with many exclamations of astonishment. The Marquis looked at them, then at the wheel which he longed to spin, and the brass box with the mille notes which he longed to investigate. His whole environment was irresistible. He produced from his pocket a hundred franc plaque and four louis, and held them poised in his left hand. With his right forefinger he spun the wheel.

The ball sped round in jerky fashion and alighted in number twenty-nine. The Marquis adjusted his eyeglass, to be quite sure that there was no mistake, and promptly deposited his counters upon the number indicated. With painstaking care he counted out from the croupier's well six thousand, three hundred francs, stuffed the amount into his pocket and rose to his feet. One of the women who had been regarding him intently—the fatter and fairer of the two; a woman wearing a dress of bright blue silk and a heavy gold chain around her neck—turned to her companion, who was obviously her daughter, a smaller replica of herself. In her excitement she spoke in German.

"Gretchen," she cried, "where do they all go, these people?"

The daughter sniffed the air for a moment, her fat little nose uplifted.

"I am not sure, but I think they smell something, Mother," she announced, also in German.

The Marquis abandoned his solitary amusement, rose sadly from his place and walked across the room, strewn with evidences of feminine flight, towards the lift.

Whilst Mr. Billingham still slept upon the following morning, there was a knock at his door and Monsieur Louchette was announced. It was a very chastened Monsieur Louchette. He was accompanied on this occasion by another functionary whom Mr. Billingham recognised as one of the principals of the Casino.

"Say, you're bright and early!" Mr. Billingham complained, sitting up in bed and yawning.

"We apologise," Monsieur Louchette said, "but the circumstances may perhaps excuse us. We have searched the place for this man Doctor Stranz. We cannot find him."

"We seek your aid," the other functionary confided.

Mr. Billingham swung out of bed and wrapped himself in a dressing-gown.

"Gentlemen," he explained, "this man is no friend of mine, but he has asked me to respect his confidence as to his whereabouts. What am I to do?"

"We are prepared to make terms," Monsieur Louchette announced.

"In that case," Mr. Billingham replied, "take a seat. Order some coffee if you will and wait whilst I have my bath. Doctor Stranz will be here at nine o'clock."

"Stop!" Monsieur Louchette exclaimed. "Mr. Billingham, you are a well- known citizen of a country we respect, your name and reputation are beyond question. Will you undertake negotiations for us with this abominable person?"

Mr. Billingham considered the matter.

"Why, I should say so," he consented. "What's the great idea?"

"He says that he has lost one hundred and forty thousand francs," Monsieur Louchette continued drearily. "We have that sum here in notes. We will give it to him provided you can extract some guarantee that the proceedings of last night and the night before shall never be repeated by him, or by any one else with his connivance or help."

"It seems a lot of money to part with," Mr. Billingham observed.

"Nevertheless, it is the decision of the Council," Monsieur Louchette replied. "One hundred and forty thousand francs is a great deal of money, but a repetition of the scenes of the last two nights would be utterly and entirely disastrous. If you can arrange this matter for us, Mr. Billingham, the Societe de Bains de Mer will consider themselves in your debt."

"I guess I can fix it if any one can," Mr. Billingham promised. "Leave the money and come back at half-past ten."

They left the money.

Mr. Billingham had chosen a table that morning on the terrace at the Reserve Restaurant at Beaulieu. A striped umbrella sheltered him and his guests—the Marquis and Madelon—from the sun. The west breeze across the bay was only a delight. Furthermore, Mr. Billingham had ordered the luncheon with peculiar care. There was caviare—the only pot in the south of France— served with ice and lemon—large caviare, dull, of the colour of olives, procurable only by an epicure of boundless means and boundless influence with those who control the kitchen. Then there was a bouillabaisse, to serve which the chef himself had arrived from the kitchen; a chicken which was a speciality of the house; wild strawberries, prepared with red wine; and a cunning mixture of liqueurs. Champagne followed the Chablis, and the brandy was served from a bidon. The whole meal was a wonderful effort.

"Never have I eaten better," the Marquis declared, as he selected a cigar.

"A banquet!" Madelon murmured. "And now, please tell us everything."

Mr. Billingham lit his cigar.

"I thought that for this little celebration," he explained, "we were perhaps just as well outside Monte Carlo. However, the news is of the best. The Societe de Bains de Mer has granted Doctor Stranz a viatique of—what do you think?"

"Five thousand francs," the Marquis guessed.

"Don't keep us in suspense," Madelon begged.

"Of one hundred and forty thousand francs," Mr. Billingham announced impressively. "The forty thousand francs I have already parted with."

"For the smells?" Madelon exclaimed.

"Precisely—and to cover Doctor Stranz's losses, which I understand amounted to nearly four milles. If ever I need a friend who can make smells he is at my service. I had hard work to escape from his embraces."

"And the remaining one hundred thousand?" the Marquis gasped.

"The remaining one hundred thousand is for us three," Mr. Billingham declared.

The Marquis' fingers trembled.

"It is incredible!" he murmured.

"It is the adventure of our lives!" Madelon faltered.

Mr. Billingham produced three packets of mille notes; one he returned to his own pocket, the other two he handed to his companions.

"Marquis," he said, "I congratulate you. The idea was mine, but a considerable part of the execution was yours and Mademoiselle Madelon's. The organisation certainly never dreamed that the real Doctor Stranz left Monte Carlo twenty-four hours ago, perfectly well content, with my forty thousand francs in his pocket. They believe that he departed at noon to-day with one hundred and forty thousand. However, the result to them is the same and they can afford the money. They paid that the contretemps of the last two nights might not happen again. They will have value for their money. Those contretemps are finished!"

"We only had six little bottles," Madelon remarked.

"You have now a little over thirty-three thousand francs in your pocket, Marquis," Mr. Billingham concluded. "You will not reproach us any longer, I trust, with those few efforts towards philanthropy which have wasted some of our time. On this occasion we have taken the great lesson to heart that philanthropy begins at home. There is also a little trifle which we have not mentioned —a little trifle to which I believe you helped yourself."

The Marquis coughed.

"I helped myself to nothing that I did not win," he replied. "Incidentally I discovered—the night of the second smell—how to win at roulette."

"Tell us," Madelon begged.

"That might be worth hearing," Mr. Billingham observed.

"Stake your money," the Marquis said impressively, "after the ball has ceased to roll!"</story>