<story title="THE LAST QUEST" date="1916">
WE reached Paris at about five o'clock in the afternoon, and on our arrival at the hotel, the Colonel began to mumble something about a hot bath, a cup of tea and bed. By the dint of a little persuasion, however, I got him into evening clothes and on to the Armenonville.

'There's no telling when we shall see Paris again as it ought to be seen,' I pointed out, as we took possession of a small table near the great glass front. 'These war scares are ticklish affairs. Most of them burst like bubbles, but this one looks uncommonly like the real thing.'

The Colonel looked grave, as he always did when war was mentioned. He'd had a pretty bad gruelling out in South Africa and he was one of the kindest-hearted old fellows breathing. It was hard, however, in those surroundings to talk about anything else. The restaurant was half-filled with officers in uniform, and there was a universal atmosphere of suppressed excitement. Out here, however, it was less noticeable than in the city proper.

We were dining a little late. The air was very cool and sweet, hidden lights flashed out from amongst the shrubs, the sound of water falling from the fountains had a peculiarly soothing effect. It was a marvellous change after the heat and turmoil of Paris. The Colonel brisked up wonderfully under the influence of his surroundings and an excellent dinner.

'By the by,' he asked me suddenly, 'what are we doing in Paris?'

'Stopping over on our way to London,' I replied.

He looked at me with a queer little smile.

'But why?'

'I want to make sure that Irvina's all right.'

'Any fool could have seen through your little game,' he told me candidly. 'I suppose you know what you are letting us in for? Every hour will make it more difficult to get away from Paris.'

'Are you in a hurry?' I asked him pointedly.

'I don't know that I am,' he admitted,

'Of course you're not,' I assured him. 'Why, you're sniffing up all the war rumours as though you had a nosegay of flowers to smell. I expect I'll have to drag you out of Paris when you do go.'

The Colonel changed the conversation.

'Have you heard from that child lately?' he inquired.

A sense of apprehension which had troubled me for some time, returned at his question.

'Not for more than a month,' I replied. 'To tell you the truth, Colonel, I am afraid that she never settled down with her aunt here.'

The Colonel grunted.

'Of course,' he said, 'if you will go about rescuing young women of an impressionable age from German princes, and, after the excitement of it all, consign them to the care of dull but elderly relatives, you must expect them to find it hard to settle down afterwards. Now you are going to unsettle the child again.'

I patted the back of his hand for a moment.

'You don't need to worry about that,' I promised him. 'If I find her this time, believe me, I mean to find a better guardian for her than that aunt.'

The Colonel grinned at me across the table.

'So that's why you are staying in Paris, and why you admit that you don't want to go on the bat to-night,' he observed.

'That's exactly it,' I assented. 'I've kind of lost my taste for that sort of thing.'

The Colonel sighed, but he remained discreetly silent. We were finishing our dinner when a thing happened which for a moment took away my breath. A waiter from another part of the room approached our table and, with a bow, presented me with a note upon a salver. It was written upon a half-sheet of the restaurant paper, doubled up and folded crossways.

'Some mistake,' I declared. 'I don't know anyone here.'

'For monsieur,' the man repeated emphatically. Since he insisted, I opened the note and stared at the few lines written there:


'If you should fail in the quest which has brought you to Paris, call at number 17 rue du Faubourg St. Michel and ask for Monsieur Rédan.'

I read this extraordinary sentence twice over. Then I looked up for the waiter. He had disappeared. I called another one.

'Find out who brought me this note,' I directed.

The man bowed and hurried away. I passed the scrap of paper over to the Colonel. He read it carefully and he, too, looked around the room as though to form some idea as to the sender's identity. After his first shock of surprise his manner was almost irritable.

'I'm hanged if I don't believe you are in for another adventure, Edmund!' he exclaimed. 'I told you when we left Monte Carlo that I wanted a little rest. All these excitements are bad for me at my time of life.'

'Get out!' I retorted. 'You're as keen as mustard yourself when there's anything doing. What I've got to discover is, who sent me this note?'

The waiter to whom I had given my commission came back presently, accompanied by a maître d'hôtel.

'The gentleman who sent monsieur the communication,' the latter explained with a little bow, 'has left the restaurant a few minutes ago.'

'But who is he?' I demanded. 'Can't you tell me anything about him?'

'Nothing, monsieur, except that he is a man of wealth and an esteemed client,' was the reply.

'Jolly queer thing,' I muttered, as I carefully tucked the note away into my pocket. 'Well, I've got the fellow's address, anyway.'

We took a little carriage and drove back to our hotel, through the Bois with its mystical lights and violet shadows and automobiles flashing around us on every side, and down the Champs Elysées into the city itself, where the streets were crowded and the cafés filled to overflowing, and every man and woman seemed to be carrying a newspaper.

There was the same look of tense expectancy in all their faces, and notwithstanding the ever-moving throngs, the boulevards seemed, in a way, quiet, as though an air of suspense were keeping men's tongues silent. The Colonel went off to his room with half a dozen papers under his arm, and I followed him very soon afterwards. Before I went to bed, however, I read over once more that queer little note, although I knew its contents by heart.

There was one gleam of comfort about it. If, by any chance, I found it difficult to trace Irvina, there was someone who had knowledge about her, whether that knowledge was a friendly one or not. I sat at my open window for more than an hour, looking out over the city and thinking. That scrap of paper more than anything else had convinced me that my quest of Irvina was a very serious thing.


Early on the following morning, the Colonel and I sallied out and were driven in a little shaky, rubber-tyred victoria to the address from which Irvina's few letters to me had been written. Directly I saw the place, I had a queer sort of feeling that we were in for trouble. It was a tall, dirty white house, half-way down a narrow, busy street, with a greengrocer's shop on one side of it and a café on the other. The concierge, whom we found in the court-yard, seated in his shirt-sleeves upon a wooden stool, a greasy and unbuttoned waistcoat inadequately concealing his immense proportions, wasted very little time over our inquiry. Madame Hénault, the aunt of mademoiselle, was gone. Mademoiselle, also, had departed. Their rooms were let to others. He knew no more.

It took five francs to elicit the further information that madame some weeks ago had married a German and that her departure from the city had therefore been advisable, if not compulsory. It was true that mademoiselle had not accompanied her, but she had left on the next day and alone, in great haste. The fellow insisted upon it that no address had been left by either of them, in confirmation of which he led us to his lodge and pointed to a collection of three or four letters, which, with a few fragments of burnt-out tobacco, half a dozen cigarette ends, and the remnants of a glass of stale vermouth, adorned his mantelpiece. One of the letters was the last one which I had written to Irvina from Monte Carlo. We passed back again into the streets and re-entered our victoria.

'Nothing for us but our mysterious friend of the restaurant,' I declared. '17 rue du Faubourg St. Michel, cocher.'

We drove to our destination through streets which seemed as full of traffic and as busy as ever, yet over which there brooded a curious silence. The pavements were thronged, but nearly every man and woman was reading a newspaper. There was no elation in their faces—very little, indeed, of what might pass for enthusiasm. On the other hand, there was not a single person who seemed to know what fear was. The Colonel was much impressed.

'For the first time in my life,' he confided to me, as we paused for a moment in a block, 'I begin to wonder whether, after all, the French are not a serious nation.'

We bought a newspaper from a shrieking urchin. Germany's insolent ultimatum to France was set out there in flaring type. The Colonel's eyes were bright as he looked down the crowded streets.

'I was here, too, in 1870,' he cold me, 'but what a difference!'

We pursued our way across what seemed to be an interminable tangle of boulevards and narrower streets, and reached at last a solid but somewhat austere-looking building in a quiet thoroughfare off one of the easterly boulevards. We ascended by lift to the second floor, and on a small brass plate we found the name of:


Monsieur Rédan,
Avocat.


We rang the bell and were admitted almost at once by a manservant. He ushered us into a waiting-room, plainly but handsomely furnished. Through a glass-topped partition on one side we could see an office in which several clerks were at work. On the other side, leading out of the waiting-room, was an apartment marked 'Private', upon which was painted the name, Monsieur Rédan.

Into this we were ushered in a few moments. Monsieur Rédan turned out to be a short, rather stout person with a little black beard, an immovable eyeglass, and an air of great precision about his clothes, and, as we subsequently discovered, his speech. He was seated before an open table covered with papers. At our entrance he rose to his feet, glanced towards the Colonel with a slight gesture of surprise, and addressed me in perfect but deliberate English.

'I have the pleasure,' he began, 'of speaking with Mr. Edmund Martin?'

'That is my name,' I replied, 'and this is my friend Colonel Green, late of the British Army.'

Monsieur Rédan bowed and shook hands with us both. Then he motioned us to be seated, crossed his legs, and, after a momentary frown at a speck of dust on his patent boots, which he promptly removed with a flick of his silk handkerchief, addressed me.

'Mr. Martin,' he said, 'you were surprised to receive my message at the Armenonville last night?'

'That's so,' I confessed. 'I don't understand how you knew my name or what I wanted in Paris.'

'A coincidence,' he assured me, smiling blandly. 'From your visit here I presume that I am correct in supposing that you have not succeeded in discovering the whereabouts of the young lady?'

There was a note of eagerness in his question which puzzled me. However, I answered him at once.

'We have been to the rue de Montmartre,' I told him. 'Madame Hénault appears to have married a German recently and left Paris. As to mademoiselle, well, the concierge could tell us nothing about her.'

'In which case,' Monsieur Rédan declared smoothly, 'it is, perhaps, as well for your sake that I can.'

He drew a sheet of paper towards him and wrote rapidly a few words upon it. This he passed over to me. It was simply an address in a neighbourhood of Paris which was unknown to me.

'The young lady,' he said, 'is very strictly chaperoned. It will be necessary for you to announce the hour of your visit. If it is convenient for you to call there at six o'clock this evening, I will arrange it.'

'It is convenient for me to call at any time,' I assured him. 'The sooner the better.'

'If I might suggest such a course,' Monsieur Rédan continued, 'might I recommend that your friend Colonel Green accompanies you? The fact that you have for a companion a gentleman of such distinction'—he bowed towards the Colonel—'will inspire confidence in the minds of those responsible for the young lady.'

The Colonel acknowledged the bow, but there was a queer look about his face which I had noticed at times when he was disturbed or disapproving.

'I should be glad to accompany my young friend,' he said. 'May we inquire with whom and under what conditions the young lady is living?'

Monsieur Rédan leaned back in his chair.

'The question is a natural one,' he admitted. 'At the same time, I trust that you will not persevere in it too strenuously. The young lady has found friends, friends for whom I act in the capacity of legal adviser. How much they may choose to tell you rests with themselves. You will understand, I am sure, that it is not permitted to me to disclose my clients' business.'

The Colonel took the paper from my hand.

'We are to call here, then at six o'clock this evening?' he remarked.

'If that hour suits you,' the avocat replied, 'the matter shall be arranged for you.'

He rose to his feet and bowed us out with all cordiality. We descended to the street almost in silence. For my part I was curiously elated. I think that I was beginning to realize how eager I was to see Irvina again. The Colonel, on the other hand, was thoughtful.

'Queer place this, Edmund,' he observed, as we stepped out of the lift. 'Queer chap, too, Monsieur Rédan.'

'Dressy old buck,' I murmured absently, with my thoughts still fixed upon Irvina.

'I must confess,' the Colonel continued thoughtfully, 'that he is not my idea at all of the type of a French lawyer, and his offices are situated in a queer part of the city for anyone of his profession.'

We resumed our places in the victoria. Just as we were starting off, I noticed two Frenchmen who had paused apparently to shake hands and light a cigarette, glance in our direction. I thought no more about them until twenty minutes later, when we pulled up at the Café de la Paix and made our way to a table upon the pavement. Immediately behind us another victoria drove up, and from it descended two men who took possession of the adjoining table. The Colonel and I ordered mixed vermouth. The older of our two neighbours, as soon as the waiter had disappeared, suddenly turned towards us and raised his hat. As his overcoat fell back, I saw a little piece of red ribbon in his buttonhole.

'Gentlemen,' he said, holding out a card, 'I beg pardon for addressing you. I present you, if you wish, with my card and credentials. I am an officer engaged in the Intelligence Department here. My companion is a police official.'

The Colonel and I removed our hats in response to his greeting.

'We haven't had time to do anything wrong in Paris,' I returned. 'We only arrived here last night.'

Our new friend bowed gravely.

'Is it permitted to ask the nature of your business with Monsieur Rédan?' he inquired.

I was a little taken aback.

'I don't know that it's any particular secret,' I told him, 'but if you'll forgive my pointing it out, I don't see what concern the nature of my business with a lawyer can be to anyone.'

'Monsieur Rédan,' was the cautious reply, 'is a suspected person.'

'Suspected of what?' the Colonel demanded, a little abruptly.

For the moment our companion evaded the question.

'Gentlemen,' he asked, 'may I inquire your names?'

'Mine is Edmund H. Martin and I come from New York,' I told him. 'This is Colonel Green, late of the British Army.'

'You have doubtless some papers?'

We had plenty, and I think that in a few minutes our questioner was not only satisfied but impressed. He handed back our combined evidences of respectability with a little bow.

'Gentlemen,' he observed, 'you visit Paris in troublous times, times when the duties of my department are onerous and far-reaching. Monsieur Rédan is one of the many hundreds of residents in this city who are being watched day by day. Those who come in contact with him are perforce subject in some measure to the same suspicion. So far as regards you two gentlemen, there is nothing left to be said,' he added, with a low bow, 'but if you will accept my word of honour and my promise of secrecy, I can assure you that it might possibly be to your advantage to explain to me what the nature of your business with Monsieur Rédan may have been.'

'I cannot see the slightest objection,' the Colonel remarked, turning to me.

'If you say so, Colonel,' I agreed, and I promptly told our story. The official listened with a large amount of interest. When we had finished, he held out his hand.

'An entirely private matter, gentlemen, I perceive,' he concluded. 'Naturally, I have nothing more to say except to beg of you for the name of your hotel and to ask you to keep this interview to yourselves.'

'We are staying at the Chatham,' the Colonel announced.

The official touched his companion upon the shoulder, and with very polite bows they both of them departed. The Colonel and I looked at one another.

'Queer times, these,' I remarked, as we sipped our vermouth.

'Very,' the Colonel assented, his eyes following the departing figures of the two men. . . .


Taxi-cabs in Paris were scarce that evening, and we contented ourselves once more with a small victoria, in which at some time before six o'clock the Colonel and I drove to the address which Monsieur Rédan had given us. The neighbourhood was a somewhat remote one, but the outside of the house, when we reached it, was in every way prepossessing. Its front had been freshly painted white and there were flower-boxes before all the windows.

A fat and smiling concierge admitted us at once through the iron gates and passed us on to a very correctly-attired butler, who in his turn ushered us through the portals of the house into a very pleasant reception-room. The apartment was filled with flowers, there were books and magazines lying about, a canary singing in the window, a great bowl of roses on a side-table, many evidences of feminine occupation. We glanced around us with a good deal of interest and some relief.

'Irvina seems to have found her way into comfortable quarters,' the Colonel remarked, with a little sniff.

I was on the point of replying when an unsuspected door, opposite to the one by which we had entered, opened at the farther end of the apartment. A lady, quietly but well dressed, with grey hair and a pleasant smile, stood upon the open threshold. She glanced a little questioningly at the Colonel, and then at me.

'It is you,' she asked, 'who wished to see Miss Irvina?'

'If you please,' I admitted.

'You will both come this way, if you do not mind,' she invited.

She motioned us to follow her and we passed along a passage in which we seemed to breathe, somehow, a different atmosphere. There was a curious sort of close odour, an odour suggestive of some anaesthetic or disinfectant. Presently our guide threw open a door on the left-hand side.

'Irvina is here,' she announced.

I stepped past her and then stopped short, but it was too late. The Colonel had followed close on my heels, and the door, which had shut behind us with a click, caught him in the middle of the back. He picked himself up from the bottom of the third step and his language was awful. He rubbed his leg and swore at me solidly for five minutes.

'You young idiot!' he exclaimed, winding up at last. 'You call yourself one of Nature's detectives and you walk into a trap like this! And, what's far worse, you lead me into it, at my time of life!'

I was standing with my hands in my pockets, looking around me. We were in a room devoid of any single article of furniture, and several feet lower than the passage we had quitted. The floor was of hardwood and the walls were distempered, with a fresco near the ceiling, and hung with several engravings which in the dim light seemed to be of value. The only window was up near the roof and protected with strong bars. There was no possibility of misunderstanding our position. The locked door behind us, and the character of the apartment, were undeniable.

'Say, this is some sort of a mess we've stumbled into,' I remarked, lighting a cigarette and passing my case to the Colonel. 'No use fretting. We are here and we've just got to sit down and wait until something happens.'

'Sit down on what?' the Colonel demanded gruffly, still hugging his leg.

I was forced to admit that the question had point and proceeded to a closer examination of this remarkable apartment. There were two trap-doors in the floor, secured apparently by a key, and at the farther end was something which looked as though it might have been a door. I was on my way to examine it when the panels were rolled back. Monsieur Rédan stood in the empty space. He welcomed us amiably. I noticed, however, that he was watching our movements with intense care.

'I am sorry to have kept you waiting, gentlemen,' he said. 'Will you come into my room?'

We crossed the floor briskly.

'Anything to get out of this!' the Colonel mumbled, sniffing.

In silence Monsieur Rédan stood on one side and we found ourselves in a very comfortable man's sitting-room. There were books and pictures, easy-chairs, and all the resources of civilization in abundance. Our host motioned us to sit down. I noticed that as we advanced he retreated. He was careful always to keep a few yards between us, and his right hand was all the time behind his back and concealed by his coat.

'We did not understand,' the Colonel snapped, 'that we should have the pleasure of seeing you here, Monsieur Rédan.'

'There were many things which you did not understand.' the avocat replied, 'when you paid that visit to me, which it is my intention now to make clear to you.'

'The sooner the better,' I intervened; 'but first of all, where is mademoiselle?'

'Wherever she may be,' Monsieur Rédan assured us, 'she is certainly not here.'

'Then why the mischief are we?' I demanded impatiently. 'You told us—'

'You are here, young man,' Monsieur Rédan interrupted, 'because you have come under the displeasure of a very great personage. Your companion is here—well, because he has the misfortune to be your companion.'

'What are we to understand by that?' the Colonel asked grimly.

Monsieur Rédan shrugged his shoulders.

'I will be brief,' he promised. 'There is no reason to play with words. I am the agent in this country of His Royal Highness Prince Adalbert von Kruck.'

The Colonel suddenly stiffened and I felt my own muscles grow tense. The man's speech was like a thunderbolt in the darkened room.

'You, young man,' he continued, 'had the misfortune seriously to affront my master. You had the sublime impertinence to abduct from his care the young lady of whom you have ventured to come here in search. You are here to expiate that fault.'

'You mean.' I demanded, 'that we are prisoners?'

Our host bowed ironically.

'Let us say guests,' he suggested.

I took one step towards him, but the revolver with which he covered us was held by a hand as steady as a rock.

'It will save us all trouble if you attempt violence,' he said coolly. 'No one will hear the shot down here, and there are plenty of ways of disposing of you both in the destruction which is to come. You would not be the first, by many dozens, who have disappeared in these apartments.'

I thrust my hands into my pockets.

'Come,' I begged, 'don't let us leave untold any part of this interesting explanation. What is your game exactly?'

'You speak with a frankness,' our host declared, 'which I will most certainly imitate. In your present situation there is nothing, indeed, which you may not know. This house in which you find yourselves has been used for many purposes in its time. To-day it is the headquarters of certain German political agents in this city. It has many advantages as a place of detention, including, by the way, a subterranean passage which leads to an oubliette into which no gendarme of Paris has ever peered. That oubliette has taken its toll already of those who have dared to range themselves amongst the enemies of my master.'

'And now that we are here?' I began.

'You will remain prisoners until the arrival of the Prince.'

'The Prince is coming here?' I exclaimed.

Monsieur Rédan glanced at a calendar.

'The Prince,' he informed us, 'will be here on August the fifteenth. He is commanding the Second German Army, which will occupy Paris on that day. When he arrives, you gentlemen will be handed over to him. In the general disorder and destruction of those days, any accident which deprived Society permanently of your presence would scarcely be accounted a remarkable thing.'

I glanced towards the Colonel and he looked back at me. There was no doubt that our host was in earnest, but his words were hard to grapple with.

'So we are to stay here until August the fifteenth,' the Colonel remarked.

'Until that date,' was the suave reply. 'Of course, there is always the possibility that my Imperial master's plans may be altered by a few hours. The fifteenth, however, is near enough.'

'And what about the young lady whom we came to see?' I asked bluntly.

Monsieur Rédan looked at me steadfastly. There was something in his gaze which I did not quite understand.

'The young lady,' he repeated slowly, as though anxious to gain time—'Mademoiselle Irvina?'

'You are not going to tell me that after all she is in this hospitable house of yours?' I asked, struggling against the fear which from the first I had felt.

Monsieur Rédan assumed an air of great frankness.

'My young friend,' he confessed, tapping a cigarette against the edge of the table, 'you touch upon a sore point. I am perfectly certain that the young lady you mention is in Paris, but her discovery has been the one failure of my life.'

'That brute of a Prince hasn't got her, then?' I exclaimed in triumph.

Monsieur Rédan shrugged his shoulders.

'So far as you are concerned, at any rate,' he said grimly, 'I have met with success. As regards the young lady, I know perfectly well that she is hiding somewhere in Paris. It will not be for much longer that she will be able to elude me.'

'Monsieur Rédan,' the Colonel intervened, 'let me ask you this. Are you aware that my friend Mr. Martin is an American citizen, and that I am an Englishman?'

Monsieur Rédan appeared unmoved.

'With England,' he declared, 'we shall be at war within a few years and we shall crush her completely. She will not have the courage to fight until she is attacked, and we shall not attack her until our own moment. As for this young man, this young American, I flatter myself that no news of his fate will ever create bad blood between our two countries. He must be taught, this vaunting young democrat, that it is not a slight thing to affront a Royal Prince of Germany.'

Now this room, also, was well below the level of the street, and the sounds of traffic reached us only very faintly, but at that moment both Monsieur Rédan and ourselves received a shock. From the neighbourhood of the next apartment, which we had just quitted, came the tread of heavy feet, and from the higher regions of the house two revolver shots rang out. Events followed one another with incredible rapidity. There was a thunderous clatter at the door and a man's imperative voice:

'In the name of the law, open!'

The cigarette dropped from our host's fingers and I saw his hand shoot towards his coat. In his anxiety lest I should take advantage of this diversion, he completely forgot my companion. With a sudden spring the Colonel threw his arms around Rédan's neck. Before he could recover he was in my power. His revolver fell clattering to the ground and I had him upon his back.

'Now, my friend,' I said, 'we will discuss this matter a little further. I don't know who these opportune visitors are, but you may as well open the door, Colonel.'

Rédan struggled like a rat, but his number was up. The Colonel found the spring-lock and opened the door. Our friends from the Café de la Paix entered, and the room behind seemed full of soldiers. Two of them marched quickly forward. There were no signs, even, of a gendarme. An officer, after a whispered word from our friend of the Intelligence Department, pointed to Rédan.

'Arrest that man,' he ordered, pointing to Rédan, whom I had suffered to scramble to his feet.

Rédan broke into a stream of angry expostulations, to which no one appeared to pay the slightest attention. He was led off with very scant ceremony. We all trooped out after him.

'The city,' our rescuer remarked, as we made our way together towards the street, 'is, I thank heaven, under martial law. We do not need to formulate charges or to enter upon a lengthy trial of prisoners. This place, from what we have just gathered, has been the headquarters of German intrigue and the meeting-place of German spies, for years.'

I pointed to where Rédan was being thrust into a motor-car.

'What will happen to him?' I asked.

Our friend glanced at his watch.

'He will be shot within a quarter of an hour,' he informed us coolly. 'Have you any objection to telling me what has happened to you since you paid your promised visit here?'

I told him all. He listened with a grim smile.

'Messieurs,' he said, 'they are confident, these Germans, but one never knows. It is not to be an affair of 1870, this. We are now a different nation....'


The Colonel and I dined with appetites undisturbed by our adventure, and we spent the rest of that evening; and most of the next few days, wandering around the streets. It was indeed an altered Paris in which we found ourselves. Taxi-cabs full of soldiers were streaming all the time up towards the Gare du Nord.

The cafés were crowded with throngs of people whom one hardly recognized as French. There was scarcely a laugh or a boasting speech to be heard anywhere. The farther we wandered, the stranger the whole scene appeared to us. There were no loiterers upon the boulevards. Everyone who passed seemed to have found a mission. Even in the faces of the women there was an air of troubled, half-formed purpose. Their heads seemed lifted a little higher, and everywhere along the streets and down the boulevards, like a dull background to the slowly unfolding drama, we heard the tramp of marching men.

On the Tuesday evening, we sat in the Café de la Paix till midnight. It was our last chance, the waiter told us. On the morrow Paris was to be a changed city, with new enactments and regulations now being printed. We sat and talked together, the Colonel and I, and for a time I had forgotten even my great purpose. There was something else oppressing us, some fear the shadow of which rested upon all these tense crowds of men and women. Then—it was a moment which I shall never forget—a stream of newspaper boys seemed suddenly to appear from the earth. The strained silence was broken by their shrill cries. We snatched for the journals, paying for them in any coin which came handy. On all sides of us men sprang to their feet.

There was only one cry on everyone's lips. I have never seen such a change in any human being as there was in those few seconds in the Colonel. All the anxiety passed from his face. He folded up the paper with trembling fingers, and there were tears standing in his eyes. The strain was over. It was the one wild moment of enthusiasm which the people permitted themselves. The shouts of 'Vive I'Angleterre!' rolled like thunder down the boulevard. England had declared war against Germany!

There were tears still in the Colonel's eyes when we walked off together a little later, after having shaken hands with several hundred perfect strangers.

'Edmund,' be confided to me, 'the last two days have been like a nightmare. A Liberal Government, you know, and Germany with her bands full of bribes. One felt that it must come right, and yet, there were bare possibilities which one didn't like to think of. Whether we win or lose now, we've done the right thing. Thank God for it!'

Under our windows, all night long, we heard still that steady tramp, tramp of soldiers. Early on the morrow, the Colonel made his way to the proper department to offer his services to the chief of the hospitals. He joined me at luncheon-time and we continued together that curious quest, of which we seldom spoke but which we never relinquished. Somewhere in the city I felt sure that Irvina must still be in hiding. I walked the streets of Paris in those days as no Baedeker-engrossed tourist has ever done.

On the fourth day after the crisis, the Colonel came to me with news.

'I've got a job, Edmund,' he announced, with face beaming like a boy's. 'You must come to the shops with me, please. I shall have to get some togs. I am going out with the Field Hospital, quite close to where the English lines will be. We are off next week.'

He trotted along by my side, looking about ten years younger. On our way to the boulevard we passed along a narrow street, down which a detachment of soldiers came swinging along. The tramp of their feet seemed to beat with a splendid rhythm upon the hard, cobbled stones, and the Colonel and I squeezed ourselves against the wall to watch them as they went by. Suddenly, as the first men passed, from a row of open windows above our heads, on the other side of the way, we heard the first bars of the 'Marseillaise' being sung by girls. We looked up. It was some sort of workroom, apparently. We could see their heads, some bending over the sewing-machines, others raised for a moment as the soldiers went by. And then suddenly one voice rang out, clear and wonderful, above the others. The effect of it was electric. Everyone near us in the street was thrilled with wonder. The other voices became instantly hushed. Gathering force and sweetness at every bar, we who listened in that gloomy street heard the 'Marseillaise' sung as it seemed to us that it had never been sung before. I gripped the Colonel's arm.

'My God!' I muttered. 'Listen! Listen to that note!'

The glory of it broke through the discipline even of those marching troops. Heads were upraised towards the window. There was a sudden word of command. An officer, marching by the side of his men, faced round towards the open casement. His sword was raised in salute, and at once, as though in obedience to the unspoken appeal of men and officer alike, the singer came slowly into sight, the last bars of that wonderful anthem pealing from her lips as she stood there, slim and dark, her arms outstretched.

There were shouts all down the street, once more the tramp of the soldiers as they resumed their march, but I was already half-way up those crazy stairs, through the wooden door upon which was pinned a card bearing a dressmaker's name, across the bare floor with its strips of dress material and its queer odours. Irvina had turned away from the window, shaking with the excitement of her effort. Then she saw me and she had breath enough still almost to shriek my name, strength enough to stretch out her hands.

'Ah, but how long you have been!' she cried. 'How long I have waited!'

I knew very well then what had brought me to Paris, and what would have kept me there until the end if I had not found her.

In some respects, no country in the world is so civilized in its institutions as France. We were married that evening, and the Colonel himself saw us off to Havre after luncheon the next day.

'We'll be waiting in London for you, Colonel,' I promised. 'Irvina and I both want to see this thing through before we take our trip across to the States.'

The Colonel smiled as he gave us a hand each.

'But remember,' he impressed upon me, 'no more wandering in strange places. The great adventure has come for both of us.'

I grasped his hand warmly.

'The best of luck to you, Colonel,' I wished him. 'I don't know what'll happen to you without me to keep you out of scrapes.'

He shook his fist at me indignantly.

'You're not attempting to insinuate,' he exclaimed, 'that I have had anything to do with our exploits together during the last few months!'

I found no words with which to answer him. To the end of his days I believe that the Colonel will imagine that it is I who am responsible for most of the events recorded in these pages.</story>