<story title="CHRISTIAN, THE CONCIERGE" date="1925">
Monte Carlo, on a moonless night late in May, is not without its sombre effects. Mr. Billingham, loitering on that extension of the Terrace promenade which passes the post- office and reaches to the bottom of the hill, took note of the changed aspects of the place during the last six weeks. The Sporting Club, once gaily illuminated, with blue-liveried servants waiting at the top of the steps to welcome visitors, and rows of automobiles drawn up against the pavement, was closed and dark. The great hotels which lined the hills no longer presented a semicircle of glittering lights. Here and there a few lamps twinkled out from the different villas, but, for the greater part, the hillside had become a chaos of unbroken blackness.

Mr. Billingham, standing with his back to the stone balustrade, smoking thoughtfully and looking landwards, was suddenly aware of a touch upon his arm. He turned abruptly to find Madelon by his side, a black silk cloak thrown over her evening gown. Her approach had been, perhaps purposely, noiseless. She seemed to have crept out of the void.

"Useless!" she laughed. "I came to make discoveries and behold I find you alone and apparently star-gazing."

"Not star-gazing," Mr. Billingham murmured.

"Seriously, I am disappointed," she went on. "I thought there must have been some reason for these mysterious nocturnal strolls of yours."

"There is a reason," Mr. Billingham confided. "An assignation?"

He shook his head.

"Look carefully," he directed, "exactly where I am pointing and tell me whether you see anything."

She stood by his side and obeyed.

"I see something," she admitted, "which looks like a rapidly-moving glow- worm, appearing and disappearing."

Mr. Billingham nodded.

"I will tell you what it is," he said. "It is someone with an electric torch moving about in a room of an hotel which is closed for the season."

"A caretaker, perhaps," she suggested.

"Perhaps," he assented. "Yet one wonders why a caretaker should be wandering about always in the same room at night-time."

"He may be sleeping there," she observed.

"Then why not use the electric light in an ordinary way?" Mr. Billingham rejoined. "Of course," he went on, "there may be a very simple explanation. There probably is. Yet there are other things which have made me wonder about that light."

"As, for instance?" Madelon demanded.

"The first time I noticed it there was just a little moonlight and I could see that the light came from the fifth window of the third story of the Hotel d'Angleterre. It was at that hotel, as I dare say you remember, that Seth Dickerson, the American who had been gambling so heavily, committed suicide a week or two ago."

"I remember," Madelon murmured. "They closed the hotel because of it a few days earlier than they meant to."

"Just so," Mr. Billingham agreed. "And the hotel has remained closed ever since. There is no caretaker in it. Whoever is moving about that room with an electric torch is an intruder."

"An empty hotel!" Madelon mused. "It doesn't sound exactly like a happy hunting-ground. And why that particular room? The poor fellow committed suicide because he had lost every penny he possessed at the tables."

Mr. Billingham did not reply. He was watching the faint flashing of the light. Sometimes it disappeared altogether for several minutes. At no time was it more than a glimmer.

"Nevertheless," he said at last, "whoever is moving about that room is searching for something. You see the light is turned in every direction, but never for a moment straight at the window."

"Shall we go up?" she proposed.

Mr. Billingham shook his head.

"Not to-night," he replied. "To-morrow morning I shall call upon the manager of the Royalty Hotel, which belongs to the same people. If you are interested you can come with me."

She thrust her arm through his.

"Meanwhile," she begged, "let us go to the Casino. I am rather uneasy about my uncle. He has borrowed no money for two days and he is becoming mysterious."

The manager of the Royalty Hotel and Mr. Billingham were from the first on the best of terms. Mr. Billingham in a very few words explained his mission.

"That poor chap Dickerson's folk have been writing to me," he said—"the fellow who committed suicide over at the Angleterre, you know."

"That affair is all finished with," the manager exclaimed hastily. "The hotel at first paid for the funeral and all expenses, but the Societe has now refunded the amount."

"That's all right," Mr. Billingham declared good-humouredly. "Seth Dickerson's people don't want any fuss any more than you do. Theirs is just a sentimental idea. They want me to have a look at the room where he died and send them a few trifling particulars."

"Delighted to do anything we can for you, Mr. Billingham," the manager assured him cordially. "Mr. Dickerson's clothes and effects were all sent to an address in London, as I dare say you know. The loose change on his table was given to the servants. It amounted to less than their weekly tips."

"That's quite all right," Mr. Billingham observed. "Naturally a fellow like Dickerson don't commit suicide while he's got anything left. How can we have a look at the room?"

"Christian, the concierge of the hotel, has the keys," the manager replied. "He is here now helping our own man. I will send for him."

He touched a bell, sent a message, and a few minutes later a tall, remarkably fine-looking man, in the uniform of the hotel, entered the room. He saluted Mr. Billingham, whom he knew slightly, and smiled at the young lady. To all appearance he was the absolute prototype of his class; brimful of knowledge, which he was only too anxious to impart, capable and good- tempered.

"This gentleman," the manager explained, "has heard from the relatives of Mr. Dickerson in America. He wants to have a look at the room Mr. Dickerson occupied."

For a single second there was something beyond ordinary interest in the man's face. Mr. Billingham, who had been watching him closely, took note of it.

"There is nothing belonging to Mr. Dickerson left in the room, sir," he pointed out.

"Quite so. I know that," Mr. Billingham intervened. "It's just an idea his people have. Want me to tell them when I get back what sort of a place it was he ended his days in. Silly idea—but folks are silly sometimes."

"You had better take Mr. Billingham and the young lady across," the manager directed.

"Certainly, sir," the man acquiesced. "If you and the young lady will step this way, sir," he continued, turning to Mr. Billingham. "I have the keys in my pocket."

They took leave of the manager and crossed the street towards the Angleterre. The concierge opened the front door of the hotel and they passed into an atmosphere of gloom and silence. There were dust sheets over the mahogany counter and the cushions of the lounge; a faint odour of tea leaves and disinfectants everywhere.

"I shall have to trouble you to come up the stairs, sir," Christian observed. "The lift is not running."

"On which floor was Mr. Dickerson's room?" Mr. Billingham enquired.

"The third, sir," the man replied.

They mounted the stairs in silence. In the corridors the sound of their footsteps awakened faint echoes. Even the stair carpets had been taken up and stood rolled together in corners. The concierge led them unhesitatingly to the door of a room which he unlocked and threw open.

"This was Mr. Dickerson's apartment, sir," he announced. "He shot himself in the easy-chair over there."

It was a bedroom of the plainest possible description; spotlessly clean, bare now of carpet or even rugs, bedstead dismantled—an epitome of dreariness. There was a little dust on the floor and a little rim of dust which Mr. Billingham noticed as the door was opened. He looked around him in some perplexity.

"How long has this room been closed up?" he asked.

"About a fortnight, sir."

"And you are sure that this is the room Mr. Dickerson occupied?"

"Quite sure, sir."

"During that fortnight," Mr. Billingham persisted, "has any one entered it at all?"

"Certainly not, sir," was the confident reply. "No one has entered the hotel that I know of."

The man stood, the keys in his hand, patient yet obviously anxious to bring this visitation to a close. Mr. Billingham walked to the window, opened it and stepped out on to the balcony. He looked to the left. There were five windows to be counted. The one through which he had passed was the sixth.

"Have any of these rooms got more than one window?"

"The next door one has, I believe, sir," the man answered, looking a little puzzled. . . . "Is there anything further I can do for you, or the young lady?" he added, after a moment's pause.

Mr. Billingham looked around once more regretfully and sorrowfully.

"Well, I guess not," he decided. "It's a poor room, this. Pretty hard up towards the end, I expect."

The concierge nodded.

"They stripped him clean, sir," he agreed. "It's a way they have down yonder. . . ."

The three descended the stairs almost in silence. Christian led them into the street, and Mr. Billingham handed him a twenty franc note.

"I am very much obliged to you, sir," the man said. "You are sure there is nothing more I can do?"

"Nothing at all, thank you," Mr. Billingham assured him. "I will just have a word with your manager. . . ."

They re-entered the Royalty Hotel. Mr. Billingham with Madelon still by his side made his way to the bureau. The manager looked up and nodded.

"Satisfied your curiosity, sir?" he asked.

Mr. Billingham glanced behind him to be sure that the door was closed.

"I guess not," he answered gravely. "I'm afraid there's a little trouble ahead."

The manager's jaw dropped. Like all hotel proprietors he disliked trouble of the sort indicated by his visitor.

"Why, what is wrong?" he demanded.

"In the first place," Mr. Billinghara enquired, "what was the number of the room occupied by Seth Dickerson?"

"Number 167," was the prompt reply.

"Precisely. Now your concierge Christian deliberately took us to 168 and showed it to me as the room occupied by Seth Dickerson."

"I cannot imagine how he could have made such a mistake," the manager remarked, with a perplexed frown. "He knows the hotel inside out."

"Oh, he knew all right," Mr. Billingham observed dryly. "Tell me now, have you keys to the hotel yourself, as well as the set Christian has been using?"

The manager opened his drawer.

"Certainly I have."

"And a pass-key to the rooms?"

"I have both."

"Then I want you," Mr. Billingham begged, "to send Christian out of the way for half an hour and to take us across there."

The manager glanced at the clock.

"That is easy," he said. "I will send him down to the station to meet the four-thirty. There is always the chance of a visitor or two Excuse me!"

He spoke through a tube for a moment, then rose to his feet.

"Of course," he continued, "I have not the least idea what you are driving at, Mr. Billingham, but I am entirely at your disposal. Come along, then!" . . .

They waited for a few minutes until the hotel bus had passed the window, then once more they crossed the road, entered the gloomy-looking building and mounted the stairs to the third floor. This time the manager opened the door of number 167.

He had no sooner done so than he himself gave vent to a little exclamation of surprise, and Mr. Billingham, following close behind, whistled softly. The room—larger than the neighbouring one, with two windows and curved balcony—was in the wildest disorder. The carpet had been rolled back and was lying "in an untidy heap upon the floor. The bedclothes had been pulled over the bottom of the bedstead, drawers stood open, an easy-chair had been overturned upon the floor and apparently the whole of its stuffing removed. The manager looked around him in blank amazement. Mr. Billingham was conscious of a feeling of intense satisfaction.

"I'm going to put you wise to something, Monsieur Lavalle," he said. "You see for yourself that someone has made a systematic search of this room. What do you think they wanted? . . . I'll tell you. They wanted the money Seth Dickerson won at the Casino on his last night there."

"Won?" the manager repeated incredulously.

"Why, Mr. Dickerson came home a ruined man. That's why he shot himself."

"Dickerson did nothing of the sort," was the confident reply. "That's what put me on the track of this trouble. I happened to know the croupiers at the tables where he played and two of the chefs. Seth Dickerson played at four tables on the night of his death and he brought home with him to this hotel a matter of between sixty and seventy milles. He had no more idea of committing suicide that evening than I have at the present moment."

"Then why did he?" the other demanded.

"He didn't," Mr. Billingham rejoined. "He was murdered."

Monsieur Lavalle had no words. It was Madelon who intervened.

"Murdered!" she gasped. "By whom?"

"By Christian, the concierge," Mr. Billingham pronounced.

There was a moment's breathless silence. In the midst of it Madelon raised a warning finger. From somewhere outside they seemed to hear the sound of a muffled footstep. Mr. Billingham moved to the door and looked out. There was no one in sight. He closed the door again.

"Listen," he said. "I guess this is mainly conjecture, but I have a sort of knack of putting things together and this is how I build up this little affair. I knew Seth Dickerson. He wasn't much of a man, but he wasn't the sort to use a gun against himself, although I know he kept one handy. I saw him in the Casino the night of his supposed suicide and he couldn't contain himself —told me he had been winning at every table. I asked the croupiers afterwards. They all said the same thing. He had been losing before, but he had been picking it up all the time that night. The long and the short of it is this. Seth Dickerson left the Casino and came back to the hotel with a packet of mille notes in his pocket and as nearly drunk as a man may be and keep on his feet."

"He hadn't forty francs when his things were gone through," the manager objected. "The Societé de Bains de Mer paid for his funeral."

"Just so," Mr. Billingham agreed, "but nevertheless he brought home sixty milles with him and unless I'm mistaken the sixty milles were at one time or another in this room. I've a friend at Police Headquarters here and although not a word of the proceedings at the inquest crept into the press, I got to know all about it. When Seth Dickerson reached home that night there was only one man up in the hotel. That man was your concierge —a man with whom Dickerson was always too friendly. He invited him up to have a drink. Christian went off to get the bottle of whisky Seth ordered, and brought it up to the room. When he arrived, I'm figuring it out that Seth had hidden the sixty thousand francs or whatever it was. He was just sober enough not to be an utter fool.

They sat and drank together, those two, and Seth bragged about his winnings. When he did it, I don't know, but I reckon that your man shot him when he sat in that chair drunk, went through him for the money, failed to find it and got out scared. Or it's likely enough that Seth told him he had hidden it without telling him where. Anyway when he shot him he expected to get hold of the sixty thousand francs right away. He couldn't find them and he had to clear out. What happened then? The room was closed up for a time, until after the inquest. No searching was done because no one had any idea that there was anything to look for. Your concierge knew, though. You closed the hotel and I don't blame you. Your man didn't want to come in during the day-time, although he had the keys, but for the last two nights he has been ransacking this room."

"How do you know that?" Monsieur Lavalle demanded.

"Because I have a fancy for moonlight strolls," Mr. Billingham explained. "The last two nights, from the promenade down below, I've seen some one hunting round here with an electric torch. It fitted in with my own ideas, so I came to you and asked to be shown this room. Just as I imagined he might, Christian took me to the next room. I could see from below that the room he was searching had two windows, because every now and then the light disappeared,"

"There is someone outside," Madelon interrupted suddenly.

They all listened. There was nothing to be heard. The silence of the great empty hotel seemed almost oppressive. Mr. Billingham moved softly to the door and threw it open. He stood there for a moment, listening, his right hand underneath his coat. A peculiar gloom seemed to envelop the place. There was ho one in sight, however, no sound to be heard. Yet, curiously enough, Mr. Billingham had the same idea as Madelon. He felt that there was someone near. He closed the door carefully and this time he turned the key in the lock.

"Christian killed Seth Dickerson all right," he declared, "but as yet he hasn't lifted the money." Monsieur Lavalle took out his handkerchief and dabbed his forehead.

"I do not understand, Mr. Billingham," he said, "how you dare take all this for granted."

"Will you explain to me the lights in this room for the last two nights, then?" Mr. Billingham demanded. "Will you tell me why your concierge, when ordered to show me this room, showed me the adjoining one? Will you tell me what all this disorder means but a systematic search, and by whom? Who else has had access to the place? No, sir, Seth Dickerson never shot himself. He lost his life because he drank like a fool and hobnobbed with a ruffian. The sixty thousand francs for which he was murdered are in this room and I'm laying odds," Mr. Billingham concluded, "that I find them within ten minutes."

"It seems to me that someone has searched the place pretty thoroughly already," Monsieur Lavalle remarked grimly. "They have torn the stuffing out of my chairs and ruined my carpet."

"They have searched," Mr. Billingham admitted, "but they didn't know what I know. Seth Dickerson had been a sailor in his younger days and was just as handy with his needle as any woman. They didn't remember that in the lapel of Seth's coat when he was discovered there was a needle. I'm taking a chance, perhaps," Mr. Billingham added, "but here goes!"

He produced a penknife from his pocket, and, moving to the bed, ripped up one of the pink damask curtains which hung from a movable brass rod at its side. He thrust his hand into the space and a beatific smile parted his lips. Suddenly Madelon pointed to the door. They followed the direction of her finger. There had been no sound, but the handle was slowly moving. The door was pressed inwards until the lock was strained. Mr. Billingham withdrew his left hand from the interior of the doubled curtains upon the bed, whilst his right hand went to his hip pocket. He motioned Madelon over to his side, and pointed at the door.

"Open it," he whispered.

Monsieur Lavalle hesitated. The sight of Mr. Billingham's gleaming revolver, however, reassured him. He turned the key. Almost immediately the door opened. Christian, the concierge, passed across the threshold. He seemed to bring with him something of the ghostly silence of the great closed hotel. He said not a word. He looked from one to the other and it was as though a sudden lunacy had seized him. His cheeks were chalk white, his gracious smile, his portly demeanour, his magnificent self-assurance, were all gone. He was like a person stricken with mortal fear. Nevertheless he did not flinch at the sight of Mr. Billingham's revolver.

"I murdered Mr. Dickerson," he confessed. "He told me he had eighty thousand francs. He was a fool to tell me. I murdered him with his own gun. I knew they would bring it in suicide. I have given myself away looking for the money."

"The money was here all right," Mr. Billingham observed.

Christian looked at him steadfastly, yet incuriously, looked at the notes upon the bed, looked at the ripped up curtain.

"He put them there when I went for the whisky," he muttered, in a dazed tone. "I thought I had searched the room, too!"

Monsieur Lavalle was standing at the bottom of the bed. He seemed unable to take his eyes off his employee's.

"You must have been mad, Christian," he exclaimed.

"I was mad," was the dreary admission, "but eighty thousand francs seemed a great deal against the life of a man who drank, drank, drank until one could see him passing. I was mad. Now I am not!"

He spoke so coldly and so entirely without any trace of agitation that no one had any idea, until too late, of his purpose. He crossed the room, and stepped out on to the balcony. They saw him silhouetted for a moment against the sky, saw his knee upon the balustrade, saw him go over—a shapeless mass, a gleam of white from his face underneath—and Madelon covered her ears with her hands. The two men stood silent. From somewhere beneath, in that deep gulf of blackness, came the sound, faint but unmistakable, of a dull thud. Mr. Billingham thrust his revolver back in his pocket, and moved anxiously to Madelon's side. From below they could hear the sound of shrieking voices and pattering footsteps along the gravel path.

Mr. Billingham, like the vast majority of his compatriots, thoroughly enjoyed the ministrations of an efficient barber. He was just completing his second session of the day in the chair of his favourite operator—a light, before-dinner shave— when he happened to glance towards the door. Mercifully his attendant had completed his offices with the razor and Mr. Billingham's violent start and sudden leaping to his feet were not accompanied by any disastrous results. With a towel still around his neck he made for the door just in time to confront a tall, thin, very obvious fellow-countryman who was on the point of entering.

"For the love of Mike!" Mr. Billingham exclaimed. "Eli Herd! Say, what are you doing here, anyhow?"

If Mr. Billingham's surprise at recognising his friend had been great Mr. Eli Herd's amazement amounted to consternation. He was a man of sallow complexion who wore gold- rimmed spectacles and might presumably have been the subject of some nervous affection. He shook hands time after time with Mr. Billingham through sheer incapacity to do anything else.

"Well, well!" he faltered at last, with belated eloquence. "Some meeting, this!"

"Nothing wrong with linoleum, I hope," Mr. Billingham demanded anxiously.

"Booming!" was the reassuring reply.

"Then, darn it all, why don't you look glad to see an old friend?" Mr. Billingham insisted.

The newcomer made manifest efforts to regain some measure of poise.

"Say, Samuel," he begged, "take that towel away from your neck, get your hat and come right along with me."

His friend obeyed and the two men strolled off together.

"Well, what's the good news, anyway?" Mr. Billingham enquired.

Mr. Eli Herd was afflicted with another fit of silence. He shook his head. He had apparently arrived at some mournful resolution.

"Sam," he said, "we will sit down together at one of those little tables outside the Café. You will find—another friend—there. You shall know everything!"

"What the hell is there to know?" Mr. Billingham, who was a little irritable that evening, demanded.

"In three minutes," his companion groaned, "you will understand why my meeting you like this has been something of a shock."

In less than three minutes Mr. Billingham understood perfectly. They crossed the Place in front of the Casino and approached the solitary figure seated underneath one of the striped umbrellas reading a newspaper. At their approach she removed the newspaper for a moment from in front of her face and promptly dropped it. If Mr. Eli Herd had been surprised to see Mr. Billingham the lady was even more so.

"Samuel!" she cried breathlessly.

"Harriet!" Mr. Billingham gasped.

The lady rose to her feet. She was tall, goodlooking in a severe way, of Junoesque proportions. She was somewhat severely dressed in the costume of an American lady travelling round the world with a suit-case.

"Say, what are you doing here with Eli?" Mr. Billingham continued.

As usual it was the lady who possessed the courage.

"Eli and I," she announced, "are on our honeymoon."

"My God!" Mr. Billingham exclaimed. "What about me?"

"Our divorce," the lady went on, having now fully recovered her composure, "was pronounced last month. You should have had the papers by this time. In your absence there was no defence to the charges which I was compelled to bring against you."

Mr. Billingham looked helplessly around. A waiter, full of unworthy suspicions, assisted him into a chair.

"Let me get the hang of this," he begged. "You've divorced me and married my lawyer here, Eli Herd."

"Samuel, be calm," she enjoined.

"I'm calm enough," Mr. Billingham assured them, his voice gaining strength at every moment. "Why didn't you let me know about it all?"

"We thought it best to keep the matter to ourselves," the late Mrs. Billingham explained. "Eli said that the divorce would cost us less pronounced in your absence. Our separation, Samuel, as you know, was irretrievable and final. I make no excuses for my action. Eli has looked after my interests in your absence with care and discretion. He is in a position, fortunately, to release me from any financial obligations towards you."

"I've cleaned up a little lately in New York," Mr. Eli Herd confided—"over a million on that Ardington deal, you may have read about."

Mr. Billingham looked around for a waiter.

Then his face fell.

"Only one way of celebrating an occasion like this," he sighed, "and alas! that don't go with you folk. Still as hot on prohibition as ever, Harriet?"

Mrs. Eli Herd coughed.

"To tell you the truth, Samuel," she confessed, "although my principles remain unchanged, Eli's health during the last few months—"

"The doctor has been most insistent," the latter intervened.

"At this time of the day," Mrs. Herd continued graciously, "we have slipped into the habit of taking what I believe is known as a 'champagne cocktail.'"

Mr. Billingham fanned himself with one hand and summoned a waiter with the other. His order was given in such terms that within five minutes the suggested beverage was brought. He promptly raised his glass.

"Well, here's how!" he said, a little weakly— "I mean," he went on, correcting himself, "my best wishes to you both."

"Say, I'm glad you're taking this right, Sam," his friend declared with an air of relief. "It didn't seem to me you'd any kick, but still we didn't reckon upon coming upon you like this before you'd heard the news."

"It might have been more considerate to prepare me," Mr. Billingham remarked, "but we'll forget it."

"I'm sure I shall always wish you every happiness, Samuel," the lady went on, looking thoughtfully at her empty glass. "You and I were wholly unsuited to one another. You must forgive my saying that I looked for more principle and a more serious outlook from a man to whom I gave everything. You, from your point of view, required from me greater tendencies towards frivolity than I was able to indulge in. You took no interest whatever, for instance, in my work for the Women's National Association."

"Or in your campaign for prohibition," Mr. Billingham murmured under his breath as he replenished the lady's glass from the bottle which the waiter, according to instructions, had brought.

"My dear," he concluded, "let bygones be bygones. I bear neither of you any ill-will. To-night I am engaged, but during your stay here we must arrange a little dinner. Eli and I, too, must have a talk about business."

Temporary addresses were exhanged. Mr. BilUngham bade his friends farewell and made his way over to the Hotel de Paris, where Madelon, seated at one of the little tables upon the Terrace, was awaiting his arrival. She looked at him curiously as he made his excuses, ordered the cocktails and called for the menu.

"I will forgive you for being late," she said, "but tell me who those strange people were to whom you were talking."

Mr. Billingham sat down.

"One of them," he said, "was my wife."

"Your what?" Madelon exclaimed, with a very queer little note in her tone.

"My wife—was a month ago, I mean," Mr. Billingham explained. "She has just divorced me and married my lawyer. They are on their honeymoon."

"And you didn't know?" Madelon gasped.

"Not an idea," was the emphatic rejoinder. "We parted many years ago. We couldn't hit it off together. She is great on good works and all that sort of thing. And now"

Mr. Billingham broke off. He was looking across the Square. In the distance he could just see Mr. Eli Herd replenishing his companion's glass from the bottle. Suddenly Mr. Billingham began to laugh. He laughed till the tears stood in his eyes. He laughed till Madelon began to laugh too out of sheer sympathy.

"What a ridiculous story I" she exclaimed. "And a ridiculous situation!"

He wiped the tears from his eyes.

"Talk about adventures!" he murmured. . . . "Why, where is your uncle?"

Madelon shook her head a little sadly.

"He is behaving queerly again," she confided.

"Borrowing money?"

"He didn't ask me for any at luncheon time," she admitted. "He was looking dazed, though, and he scarcely spoke a word. I saw him again later in the afternoon coming out of Wedderburn's, the English solicitor's."

"Can't see how he could touch Wedderburn for anything," Mr. Billingham observed thoughtfully.

"He changed his clothes some time ago," Madelon continued, "so when he does come out he will be ready for dinner—and here he is," she added. "Look at him, on the steps."

Mr. Billingham glanced towards the Marquis who was standing with his hands behind his back, gazing out across the gaily lit Square—lit not only with those tree-shaded electric lights, but with the glamour of the moon which was just showing from behind the hills. He stood for a moment like a man whose thoughts had wandered away. Then with the utmost deliberation he descended the steps and came towards them.

"I bet he's got it stiff," Mr. Billingham sighed.

"I don't care. He can have what he wants from me to-night."

"Are you really so happy?" Madelon whispered.

"There's one thing—" he began.

Madelon withdrew her hand—not abruptly, even, perhaps, with some reluctance. A sommelier had invited Mr. Billingham's attention to the wine-list, and before he had departed the Marquis had entered, nodded to them both and taken his place. He drank the cocktail which was immediately presented to him, holding it for a moment a little away.

"Forgive me," he begged, as he set down his empty glass, "if my toast is a silent one. You will understand it better, perhaps, when I tell you that I have paid my last visit—my last visit as a gambler, that is to say—to that pleasing but grotesquelooking edifice opposite."

"I thought so," Mr. Billingham groaned.

The Marquis leaned a little forward so that the few words he had to say could be heard by both his companions. His elbows rested lightly upon the table. His elegant finger-tips were pressed together.

"My farewell," he confided, "is not of the nature you imagine. To-day has been for me the wonderful day of which I have always dreamed. I entered the Rooms at eleven o'clock this morning with the scanty remains of a mille note in my pocket. At luncheon time I deposited at the Credit Lyonnais the sum of six hundred and fifty thousand francs. In the middle of the afternoon I handed to my solicitor a further sum of four hundred thousand francs. I have in my pocket—forgive the bulge, which I know is most unsightly— a further two hundred and eighty thousand francs."

Mr. Billingham and Madelon exchanged glances, their expressions instantly betraying one common thought. The Marquis smiled tolerantly. From his waistcoat- pocket he produced a banker's receipt to which was attached a receipt signed by Peter Wedderburn for the sum he had mentioned. From the breast-pocket of his coat he withdrew for an instant an enormous pile of mille notes.

"Systems," he declared, "will never win or even hold their own against the inevitable laws of chance. Inspiration may at times make any man a fortune. The only reason why over there they do not fear inspiration is because there is no man who wins by reason of it, who does not lose by afterwards following a false one. To-day I have been inspired. I started with two modest en pleins. I found my numbers at every table. I increased my stakes to maximums. I still won. In the 'kitchen,' before lunch, I had broken every record known. I had had forty-two en pleins for my three numbers, three-quarters of which were in maximums. Not only the en pleins, mind you, but when I saw this great wave of fortune I let myself go. I heaped on the carrés and the chevaux. Nothing stopped me. At the first sign of slackening off, however, I buttoned up my pockets. I had been playing for two and a half hours only. I lunched without a word to Madelori. I visited the bank. I returned to the Cercle Prié with five milles in my pocket and no more. At twenty minutes past four I had won seventeen maximums on en pleins alone with many attendant stakes. I was being followed about so that my progress became almost uncomfortable. For years they will talk of my fortune. The banks were closed, so I saw my friend Mr. Wedderburn, the lawyer, and deposited my money with him. Thereupon I changed my clothes and I returned to the Casino with five milles. I lost four and was preparing to leave. With the last mille I once more struck that amazing streak of luck. En plein followed en plein. Fourteen, for instance—on which I had the maximum with all the carrés and chevaux, the transversal and the middle column— turned up four times following. You could have heard the roar from the centre table in the 'kitchen' outside in the Square. People left off playing at every table to see what was happening. Twenty minutes ago I lost three times following. I smiled. So often I have seen these huge winnings returned to where they came from. I could see it in the faces of the croupiers. I could feel it in the atmosphere. I smiled. I buttoned up my pockets. I lounged outside. I looked around at this beautiful scene. I strolled across here. I dine. Roulette with me is finished."

"This," Mr. Billingham declared solemnly, "is the most amazing evening I have ever known."

The Marquis talked on. He discussed his winnings calmly without the least trace of excitement.

"I have always felt this in my blood," he declared. "It is why I have been so persistent. But I will tell you a strange thing. My great fortune has done this for me. I am no longer a gambler. At the conclusion of our dinner this evening I am telegraphing to Paris to my old friend, General Hernais, who has three times lately begged me to share his apartment and his very pleasant life in Paris. I am in a position now to do so. I regret very much, my friend Billingham," he added, "to break up so our pleasant little companionship, but you will, I know, not blame me. For you, my dear Madelon," he concluded, "I shall make whatever arrangements appeal to you most strongly. I need not say that you will share to the fullest extent in my good fortune."

Madelon squeezed his hand.

"You are a dear, Uncle," she said, a little vaguely. "I cannot tell you how glad I am."

"Confessions and new resolutions seem to be in the fashion," Mr. Billingham observed. "I will make one. You do not know, Marquis, although your niece does, that I have been married all these months of our acquaintance."

The Marquis was evidently disturbed. Mr. Billingham, however, continued without giving him an opportunity for speech.

"My wife," he went on, "has divorced me. We have not lived together for many years. Our temperaments were entirely different. Our marriage was a mistake and my freedom is very welcome— especially as my late wife has found all the happiness she desires with another man. Furthermore, my position as an adventurer has been to a certain extent a fraud. All the things which go with adventures are in my blood and part of my life, but I sold out my business a few months before I came here for a cash sum of over two million dollars and I still have an interest in the firm."

"More than once I suspected it," the Marquis admitted, after a breathless pause. "You had never the appearance of a poor man, my friend Billingham."

Madelon's eyes were fixed upon her plate. For some reason or another Mr. Billingham's confession had seemed to be lacking in interest to her.

Presently the Marquis took his departure. Mr. Billingham leaned across the table.

"Madelon," he said, a little hoarsely.

She raised her eyes and looked at him.

"It seems our partnership of three must come to an end," he continued. "Would you—would it be possible—to start a partnership of two?"

The surroundings were very wonderful, even inspiring. The moon now was clear of the hills and the faintest of breezes brought the perfume of the flowers from the gardens, and even of the orange blossoms from beyond, across the Square. The orchestra was playing in the Café. It was all very beautiful, but the most beautiful thing that Mr. Billingham had ever seen in his life was the strange softness in Madelon's eyes and the little quiver of her lips.

"Couldn't we have coffee in your salon and then walk along the Terrace and talk about it?" she whispered.</story>