<story title="THE SIREN VOICE, PART 1" date="1916">
DE MIEVILLE and I were sitting together sipping absinthe, or rather he was sipping his and I was looking at mine. De Mieville was a queer sort of chap I had run up against at the 'Austria' one night. He called himself a French-Romanian, and he seemed to know the worse half of every language under the sun. He was really nothing more nor less than a guide, and I don't suppose his name was de Mieville or anything like it, but he was mighty particular about being addressed properly, and you had to slip the money into his hand as though by accident, at the end of the day, when you'd made use of him. Ten francs an hour I used to pay the little beggar for sitting about with me, and sometimes I thought he was worth it. The Colonel and his sister had gone to stay with some friends who had a villa at San Raphael, and I had been taking the opportunity of seeing Nice and some of the other places with de Mieville. We were really discussing then how to spend the rest of the day.

We were seated upon one of those long seats just outside the glass partition which is a sort of annex to Ciro's American bar. There were very few people in the Arcade and it was too early for lunchers. Suddenly, in the road behind me, I heard the sound of a piano. I don't know that I should have noticed it particularly, but that de Mieville broke off in the middle of a story and his hand went up to his little black moustache, as it always did when he was excited. After that, though, believe me, I forgot all about him and everything else. A girl had begun to sing. It wouldn't be of any use in this world my trying to describe that voice. I only know what its effect was upon me.

I don't know anything about music, nor ever shall, and no one has ever accused me of being sentimental. De Mieville spends half his time wondering why these painted young French hussies whom he finds so chic, with their ugly dogs and their gold baggage and mincing walk, don't cut any ice with me, but that girl's voice did the trick, right enough. I just sat still, holding on to myself, and life seemed to slip away from me. I felt like a boy again, when he first begins to notice things, like the sea and the sun and the touch of the wind and the scent of flowers, that all sane and practical people take as a matter of course later on in life.

I was back in those clays before I knew where I was, with all manner of queer sensations tugging at my heart, feeling and looking for all the world like a great schoolboy. I suddenly felt that there was something in life I wanted passionately, something which I had either not known about or had forgotten, and Monte Carlo, with its blue sky and white casinos and its flaming, artificial life, might have been swallowed up in the sea for all that I cared. Outside that voice, the first thing I was conscious of was that de Mieville, a zealous Roman Catholic, had crossed himself and had risen hastily to his feet.

'My friend,' he said, 'we go. The absinthe is not so good as at a little place I know of.'

His voice broke the spell. I got up from the seat, indeed, but it was simply to turn round and look into the road. I didn't answer de Mieville. I was staring, with my mouth open, at the little group below. The girl seemed quite young. She was almost thin, and she wore a dress of the plainest black which looked somehow as though it were made all in one piece. She wore a black hat, and, to my disappointment, a little mask of black velvet. All that I could see was her girlish, swaying figure, though the air was still full of that throbbing music.

Drawn up by the kerb was a shabby little old-fashioned motor-car, from which the piano had evidently been lifted. A small man with an unusually large, pale face sat there playing. On the other side of the girl stood a man who must have been at least six feet and a half. He was doing nothing but just standing about. A foreigner, he seemed to be. I sort of guessed that he was looking after the girl.

De Mieville touched my arm once more.

'My young friend,' he repeated, 'we go. I am in a hurry. I take you to a very interesting place.'

'Shut up, you idiot!' I whispered half under my breath. 'Don't interrupt.'

I shook off his grasp a little roughly, perhaps. He stood on one side and I was dimly conscious that he was in a state of nervous agitation. But for myself I did not care. I just felt that the very air was full of music. There was something quivering all around me which made me feel at the same time like a perfect idiot and supremely, foolishly happy. I forgot everything in life that was ugly. But with all those feelings, or rather underneath diem, there was one very human one.

I wanted, like nothing else in life, to take the mask from that girl's face, to look into her eyes and try to tell her some of my confused tangle of thoughts. The song came to an end. The performers looked up. Then I pulled myself together and moved quickly towards the steps which led down into the road. Suddenly I felt de Mieville tugging at my arm again.

'Meester Martin,' he exclaimed, 'Meester Martin, you listen to me!'

'You can talk to me afterwards,' I answered, wrenching myself free. 'They may be gone.'

'But leesten,' he insisted, keeping by my side. 'Take my advice. I who know—I, Alphonse de Mieville—I tell you that I know life inside out, and men and women as well. Do not go near those people.'

We were in the road now. The big man, with his hat off, was collecting gratuities from the little crowd who had come together quickly, attracted by the extraordinary character of the girl's voice. I hesitated only for a moment.

'What the devil do you mean?' I asked de Mieville.

'Come with me away and I will tell you,' he answered breathlessly. 'Do not attempt to speak to them.'

I pushed him unceremoniously on one side. The big man had taken a step towards me. I flung a louis into his hat but I took no notice of him. I was within a yard or two of the girl. She had turned a little away, as though to speak to the man who had played her accompaniment.

'Mademoiselle,' I said, standing there with my hat in my band, I have never heard singing like yours in my life.'

Neither she nor either of the two men answered me for a moment. I became instantly conscious that in addressing her I had somehow or other annoyed them.

The big man pushed himself between the girl and me.

'Monsieur will pardon,' he interposed, in broken English. 'Mademoiselle sings but seldom in public, She does not like to be addressed.'

'But I mean no harm,' I answered eagerly. 'I have never heard such singing. I would like to hear mademoiselle sing again. I would like to speak to mademoiselle.'

I was suddenly aware that they were making preparations to depart. At a sign from the man at the piano, the driver of the motor-car had started his engine. The pianist—a very remarkable-looking figure he was now that he was standing up—was hastily closing his instrument. The girl had turned a little farther away, but I caught the side-long flash of her dark eyes as she glanced over her companion's shoulder.

'Mademoiselle will not sing again,' the big man announced stolidly. 'If monsieur is disappointed, if he feels that he has been too generous, he can have his louis back.'

To my surprise he offered it to me, but I flung it back into his hat.

'Listen,' I persisted, 'this is no affair of money. I am honest when I say that I have never heard such a voice as the voice of mademoiselle. I have never heard a voice which I desire so much to hear again. You go elsewhere to sing? Why? Look!'

I thrust my hand into my pocket. I had been winning at the Club the night before and I had plenty of gold. I held out fifteen or twenty pieces.

'I mean no harm,' I continued. 'You can go away afterwards, if you will. Let mademoiselle sing one song to me without her mask, and I will go back to my place in the Arcade and listen from there.'

The man who had been playing the piano gazed at the gold in my hand as though he were fascinated. There was an expression almost of pain in his face as he turned away. For the first time he spoke.

'Mademoiselle will sing no more,' he said. 'We are artists. Monsieur, if he is a gentleman, will understand. He will relieve us of his presence.'

I stood there, bitterly disappointed, bereft, for a moment, of words. In a very few seconds the little piano had been lifted to the back of the car. The two men stood one on either side of the girl.

'Mademoiselle,' I ventured, still standing there bareheaded, 'I thank you for the most wonderful five minutes of my life.'

She turned her head. The face of the elder of the two men was almost livid as he caught at her wrist. Nevertheless, she looked at me.

'Merci, monsieur' she whispered.

They drove off then—the two men talking together angrily and excitedly, while the girl leaned back as though a little bored. De Mieville plucked at my arm but I refused to move, and I had my reward. As the car swung round to the right, past the English bank, she turned her head. Ever so slightly she waved her hand. Then they disappeared, and I came down to earth to find de Mieville fussing around me. I turned upon him without giving him a chance to utter a word.

'Now then, young fellow,' I said, 'you call yourself a guide. You say you know Monte Carlo and the Riviera inside out. Tell me about that girl and her guardians. Who is she? Who are they?'

'But it is I who have been trying to tell you,' he replied bitterly.

'Well, I am listening now, anyway,' I assured him. 'We will return and finish our absinthe,' he declared gloomily.

I followed him up the steps, and to please him I commenced to drink my share of the stuff.

'Out with it,' I insisted.

'I am not a man,' he began, 'superstitious by nature, but I have my fears, I have my fancies. There are others like me. It is the siren voice to which you have listened. There was a young man, an Englishman, who heard it with me three months ago. He was very much like you. They repulsed his advances as they have done yours, but he made it a point of honour with me that I should discover their abode. I did so. The next night he was picked up not fifty yards from their little villa. It was an affair of robbery, everyone said. He had received a terrible blow at the back of his head and his pockets were empty.

'I went to him in the hospital. He would tell me nothing. He went back to England like a ghost. Then there was a young Frenchman, not a month ago. He, too, was the same. He sent roses and wrote letters, he followed them about when they came to sing, and one day he disappeared. His belongings are at the hotel now. He has never been to claim them. He was last seen climbing the hill at the back of the town. Their villa is that way.'

'You're getting at me, de Mieville,' I scoffed. 'You don't believe all this rubbish?'

'But it is the truth of God,' he insisted. 'And not only that, but each time after I have seen them, those three, the black luck has followed me. I have lost my clients, lost my money at the Casino. In many ways fortune has been cruel.'

I was beginning to feel awake again and I only laughed at my companion, His little nervous features were all twitching. There was even a drop of perspiration upon his forehead. He was smoking a cigarette furiously.

'Well, they've brought you no ill-luck this time,' I assured him, 'for I am going to give you ten louis just to tell me where they live, those three.'

The little man rose promptly to his feet. He summoned a waiter and threw down three francs upon the table.

'Monsieur,' he said, 'I refuse.'

I stared at him.

'Why, you're joking, man!' I exclaimed. 'Just the address, that's all. Do you know what you are talking about? Ten golden louis!'

I rattled them in my hand. Perhaps I was treating the fellow the wrong way. Perhaps, after all, his name was de Mieville. Anyway, he put his hat on his head with a little slam, picked up his gloves and drew himself up.

'Meester Martin,' he said, 'I wish you good morning. Between gentlemen that is enough. You will not address me further on this subject.'

He was half-way down the Arcade before I could stop him. Then I sat there, looking at my half-filled glass, looking at his little dapper figure, which seemed suddenly to have lost its swagger, looking down into the dusty, sunlit road at the spot where, a few minutes before, that little cavalcade had stood. I was half inclined to believe that the whole incident had been a dream, horn of the fumes of that strange, opalescent-coloured liquid which de Mieville had forced me to drink.

And then, as I sat there, the air was once more tremulous with that strange, heart-searching music. I seemed to feel it again, quivering in all my nerves. I felt once more a great helpless lout, blundering about in a world of new sensations. The memory was sufficiently poignant, however. I knew that the affair had been no dream. I got up and started off on my pilgrimage. . . .

Until six o'clock that evening I tramped steadily through the streets and squares at the back of Monte Carlo, without a gleam of success. I neither saw anything of that crazy motor-car, the little hand-piano, nor one of that mysterious trio. I ended my quest by turning into the Casino, a place which I very seldom visited, and here at last I had my first stroke of luck. Just after I had left my hat and gloves with the vestiaire and turned towards the Rooms, I was attracted by a solitary figure sitting at the end of one of the lounges in the vestibule. He seemed to be making some calculations upon a piece of paper, and there was a look in his face which already I had begun to recognize. I seated myself noiselessly by his side.

'Out of luck?' I asked casually.

He started violently. At first I do not believe that he remembered me, but looked upon my inquiry as part of the freemasonry of the gamblers' profession. He held out towards me a pile of figures.

'Two more coupshe declared, with a little gasp, 'and I should have been home. You see the figures—they cannot lie. You recognize the system? It is infallible. Two more coups, I say! And, behold—nothing!'

He held out his hands—beautiful slender white hands they were, and well-kept. His face was a strange combination of strength and weakness. There were the delicate lips, the fine features of the artist, and the heavy forehead and eyebrows, the deep-set eyes of a man of determination. Predominant over everything, however, there was the fever which had seized him. For the moment he was neither artist nor man. He was gambler, pure and simple. He moistened his lips with the tip of his tongue.

'It is Hell, that place!' he muttered. 'One comes within an ace of victory, and for the sake of a miserable handful of louis one must lose everything.'

'I am prepared,' I announced, 'to lend you that handful, or even two handfuls of louis.'

He almost sprang upon me with outstretched hands. Then a gleam of the man underneath flashed out. He recognized me, and sat for a moment as though turned to stone.

'You are the young man,' he exclaimed, 'it is you who annoyed us this morning and drove us home!'

'If I annoyed you,' I said, 'I can only apologize most humbly. I tell you now what I told you then. I never heard such music in my life. I was excited. I scarcely know what I said to you.'

'For the music it is nothing,' he declared slowly. 'To that you may listen and wonder, although the less her voice is talked about the better. But you came down, you wished to hear her sing without her mask.'

'Just now,' I asserted boldly, 'there is nothing else I want so much in the world as to see the owner of that voice face to face.'

He began hastily rolling up his papers.

'That,' he pronounced, 'is impossible. A day will come, perhaps, when you and all others—but no! I have no words to speak with you.'

He would have gone but I laid my hand upon his arm.

My other hand held my pocket-book. It was fat, and as he looked at it his eyes seemed to glow.

'Say, you've been losing,' I reminded him. 'You can win it all back. You can repay me, if you like. I will be your banker. I am rich. There is no shadow of disrespect in my thoughts towards your protegée, believe me. Her music simply made me feel what I have never felt before. I have a passionate desire to speak to her. Never mind, that can wait. How much shall I lend you?'

I have never seen a man's emotions more clearly written in his face. Side by side with that passionate and curious desire to escape from notice, to keep himself and the owner of that wonderful voice from all prying inquirers, was the tearing desire of the gambler, the feverish longing to make his way back into the room with my gold in his hands. From where we sat, we heard the little dick as the ball at the nearest table came to rest. We heard the croupier's voice:

'Vingt-neuf, noir, impair et passe.'

'The number next to mine!' the man suddenly exclaimed, springing to his feet. 'You shall lend me five hundred francs, monsieur. It is enough.'

'You will take a thousand,' I said, handing him a mille note, 'and you will tell me the name of the villa where you live. I give you my word of honour that for the present, at any rate, I will make no attempt to visit it save when you are there.'

'You must never come near it!' he replied harshly.

I held out the mille note.

'Nevertheless,' I persisted, 'the name of the villa?'

'The Villa Violette,' he said, speaking as though the words were absolutely torn from him. 'And you? To whom shall I repay?'

'My name is Edmund H. Martin,' I told him, and you will find me at the Hôtel de Paris. Come and look me up.'

He was gone, clutching my note in his hand, his head a little thrown back, his eyes unseeing. I looked after him curiously. Then, after a moment's hesitation, I turned my back upon the place and walked across to the Café de Paris. It had been my intention to sit there for a few moments and to go on to the Sporting Club for an hour before I changed, but, within a few yards of the chair where I usually sat, I came upon de Mieville, gloriously drunk.

'Hullo, de Mieville!' I exclaimed, moving over to his side.

He looked at me in stony silence. His Homburg hat was pulled a little over his eyes, his face was parchment white, and his eyes were full of a dangerous glitter.

'It is the fool American,' he said. 'Sit down. Drink with me. There may not be many more drinks coming to you. Who knows? Soon you may be, at best, in hospital, or perhaps with the young Frenchman. You follow the evil star.'

'Don't talk rot,' I answered. 'What you want is a brandy cocktail.'

I summoned a waiter and gave an order. De Mieville seemed as though he had not heard me.

'The siren voice!' he muttered to himself. 'To-day, for the third time, I listened to it. Look at me. I was a man this morning. Since then I have drunk—drunk in the quiet places, drunk at the cafés, drunk in my little room, and now I sit here and I shall drink again.'

'You're all right,' I told him. 'What you want is just a nip to steady you, and then get off home to bed. Take a bath, if you feel equal to it, and roll yourself up for an hour or two. Bless you, I know what a jag is!'

'This is not a jag,' he declared, slowly and steadily, keeping his head very straight. 'This is the fire-poison. This is what comes when I hear that voice, because I have a weight at my heart, because I am afraid, because I know!'

'Look here,' I remonstrated, 'you are beginning to fancy things.'

'I do not fancy anything,' he retorted. 'Look at my hands. Are they clean?'

I looked at them. There was nothing particularly the matter with them.

'They are all right,' I told him.

'You lie!' he answered. 'They have never been clean since the day when Ambroise lay dying and sent for me.

'"There is no one else to trust, de Mieville," he faltered, "so I trust you. Take Irvina to Paris, to my sister. The letter is written. It lies on my dressing-table."

'And then he died. My God! And I—'

The waiter set down our drinks upon the table. Then suddenly, without a moment's warning, de Mieville sprang up, dashed them on to the floor, threw the table after them and jumped at the waiter. It took three of us to hold him down, and all the time he talked and shouted in one of the most abominable languages I ever heard. I fancy someone told me afterwards that it was Romanian. They hauled him away between two gendarmes, screaming like a maniac, flung him into a closed voiture and rattled off. The waiter by my side brushed the dust from his clothes and looked disconsolately at his torn shirt and collar.

'Mais il est un diable, cet homme là,' he muttered.

I gave him ten francs and strolled back to the hotel. I consulted one of the young men in the office as to what could be done for de Mieville, and found that he would at any rate have to remain in prison until the morning. Then I went up and changed my clothes, and sallied down a little dejectedly, half an hour later, to fake a solitary cocktail. As I stepped out of the lift, a page-boy accosted me.

'A gentleman to see monsieur,' he announced.

I looked across the hall and there was the pianist, the man who had borrowed my thousand-franc note. I went eagerly over towards him and found myself received by an utterly changed person. He bowed a little stiffly but courteously.

'If I could have the pleasure of a few words with monsieur,' he murmured.

I led the way to the bar and he consented to take a mixed vermouth. Then he brought out his pocket-book and handed-me a thousand-franc note.

'I return my loan, with many thanks,' he said. 'All went as was certain. The system upon which I play is sometimes delayed, but in the end it always succeeds. It is thanks to you, sir, that I was able to escape to-day from a serious loss. I wish to express my thanks and to show my gratitude.'

'Well, you have the opportunity,' I reminded him, raising my glass.

He drank with me in silence, The storm had passed from his face and on the whole I found it almost prepossessing. He spoke to me very earnestly indeed.

'Sir,' he said, 'you are, as others have been, attracted by the young lady whose voice you beard. I try to place myself in your position and therefore I speak to you
tolerantly and with good intention. That young lady's
future is written. She has no need of admirers. She is
already—'

'Already what?' I interrupted breathlessly.

'She is promised to her patron, her great and illustrious patron, whose name I decline to mention. The care of her—the jealous, scrupulous care—is a charge upon me and my honour. I have the means to resent all intrusions upon her privacy. There have been young men like yourself, who have admired and who have been foolish and who have suffered.

'I had no opportunity of giving them a warning. With you it is otherwise. I am here for that purpose. I warn you, Mr. Martin, to make no use of that address I gave you; to remember the Villa Violette only to keep away from it. The young lady is never alone. You will never see her alone. As the possible heroine of an adventure she is as hopeless to you as one of those wonder-women who lean down from the stars or speak to us with the voice of the wind. That is what, for your own safety and your own good, I have come here to ask you to believe.'

The fellow's manner and tone were hatefully and depressingly convincing. The thing had grown too big with me, however, to heed any warning.

'I am much obliged,' I told him. 'I believe you are speaking what you believe to be the truth. If I were looking for an ordinary adventure, I'd chuck it. I am not. There is something more in it for me. I don't know what—I can't tell you. I only know that I am going to speak to the girl who sang with you this morning, before I leave Monte Carlo,'

He rose a little stiffly to his feet.

'You have been warned, sir,' he said, 'and that is more than the others were. We shall be prepared for your visit at the Villa Violette.'

'I shall call,' I announced, 'at three o'clock to-morrow afternoon.'

He made me a little bow as he left the room.

'Before then, monsieur,' he replied, 'I trust that you will have reflected. . . .'


There is no doubt that the next morning I missed Colonel Green. Things at the police station were kind of ravelled up for de Mieville, and it cost him two hundred francs, and ten francs extra for an interpreter, before I could get him out. He was the most miserable-looking object on earth when at last I brought him out into the fresh air. I put him in a corner of a taxi-cab and told the man to drive to the nearest barber's.

'Look here,' I said on our way up, 'I have seen men drunk before, but I'm not used to seeing them behave like madmen. If you are going to make a habit of that sort of thing, I should advise you to give your attention to soft drinks, to get on the water-wagon—you understand?'

'I do not understand anything,' be replied gloomily. 'It was the voice. It speaks to me—every time it speaks to met'

'That's all rot,' I declared. 'I have spoken twice since then with the man who played the piano, and I wouldn't mind betting you a hundred francs that before the week has passed I shall have seen and spoken with the girl.'

De Mieville crossed himself hurriedly.

'You will be the third!' he muttered.

I sat in the barber's while he was shaved, and afterwards I took him to my rooms and made him presentable. Then I gave him some luncheon, and at half-past two started out in search of the Villa Violette. I found it at last on the hill-side, a little below the Corniche Road. It was a tiny little place with quite an imposing approach and a large garden. I rang the bell at the front door, scarcely knowing what I expected. Nevertheless, I was certainly surprised when, after only a brief delay, the tall man, into whose hat I had thrown the money in the road, opened the door. He was dressed in plain black clothes and he might have passed very well as a butler. He did not wait for me to ask any questions, but ushered me at once into a little sitting-room. Then he closed the door after him and disappeared. So far my adventure was innocent of anything even unusual. I looked around the room with interest. Half of it was taken up by a grand-piano. The rest of it was a medley of flowers and books, piles of music and music scores. The furniture was poor in quality, and there was nothing in the room of any value except the piano. In a few moments the door was quickly opened and shut. It was my friend the pianist who had entered.

'So you have kept your word,' he remarked.

'Naturally,' I answered. He motioned me to sit down.

'My name,' he said, 'is Kohlan.'

'And the young lady—is she related to you?' I asked.

'She has no relatives,' my host answered coldly. 'I am her guardian. Sit still and I shall tell you her history.'

'Next to seeing her,' I observed, 'that is exactly what—'

'You will not see her now or at any future time,' was the cold reply. 'Listen!'

I took the chair to which he pointed, and folded my arms.

'The young lady,' he began, '—we will call her by her Christian name, which is Irvina—was the daughter of a bandmaster who died two years ago at Nice. He was a Hungarian who for many years had been chef d'orchestre to the greatest man in Germany, whose name, if you please, we will not mention, but to whom I will allude as "the Prince." The father of Irvina died penniless. The child, who was then fifteen years old, was left entirely at the mercy of strangers. I ventured to appeal on her behalf to the Prince.'

'Where did you come in?' I interrupted.

'I was a friend of the girl's father,' Kohlan replied. 'The Prince, fortunately, was at Cannes. He came over, he saw Irvina, I induced him to hear her sing. When I say that her voice made an impression upon him, I use impotent words. He tore himself away with difficulty. That night he was leaving for Germany. He placed her musical education in my hands. Not only that, but he engaged my sister, who lives in this house, as chaperon, and he laid his commands upon us both strictly. She was never to appear in public, to make no acquaintances until he returned. That was two years ago.'

'And he has not been here since?'

'Three times he has been coming and three times the Kaiser has forbidden him to leave Germany,' Kohlan explained. 'Now at last, though, we have certain news. The Prince is coming almost at once. If her voice does not disappoint him, she is to make her début at once in Grand Opera. We are to be prepared to hand her over to him upon his arrival.'

'That's all very well,' I said; 'but what about the young lady? How old is the Prince?'

'Forty-seven.'

'Does she remember him?' I asked.

'She knows that he is her patron. That is enough.'

'Is it!' I retorted. 'Well, that may be your point of view but it isn't mine. You talk about handing her over to the Prince as though she were some article of furniture.'

Kohlan shrugged his shoulders.

'You belong to a democratic country,' he observed. 'It is not so with us. Germany is an absolute despotism. My father was born on one of the Prince's estates, and we have been proud to be his servitors. He is one of the few men about the Kaiser who practically rule Germany. What he wills in this matter is to be done.'

'Well, I'm glad to know the story,' I said, 'because it makes me more determined than ever to make the acquaintance of Miss Irvina.'

The man stared at me as though I had taken leave of my senses.

'It is not to be permitted,' he declared. 'I have told you the truth so that you may act like a reasonable human being and give us no trouble. There have been others who were more foolish than you in the beginning, with whom we have dealt differently.'

'That may be so,' I answered, 'but there are limits to what you can do, even in Monte Carlo. I have heard about the young Frenchman and the young Englishman. I think another affair of that sort might land you in a little trouble.'

The man's face seemed to have become whiter than ever. He shrank back in his chair.

'What do you mean?' he faltered. 'You can have heard nothing.'

'On the contrary, I have,' I told him,' and I have been warned against you. I am here with a perfectly reasonable request, and I want you to remember that there is trouble in any quarter of the world if an American citizen is ill-treated. I want you to permit me a few moments' conversation with Miss Irvina, before yourself if you choose.'

He rose to his feet and rang the bell.

'My answer to all this is simple,' he said. 'I have finished with you. I have tried to be reasonable. It is useless.'

The butler answered the door. Kohlan turned to him.

'You will show this gentleman out,' he ordered.

I looked at the man whom they called the butler, and back at Kohlan. There was no mistaking their attitude. When it comes to a scrap I am as ready for it as most men, but that didn't seem the time or the place. I took up my hat.

'Very well, Mr. Kohlan,' I concluded, 'I am glad to have found out where you live and a little more about you, anyhow. You will hear from me again in a few days.'

'Let it be clearly understood,' Kohlan enjoined, as he followed me to the door, 'that no further visit of yours here will be tolerated.'

I took no notice but walked out. I looked up at all the windows of the place as I sauntered slowly down the avenue, but saw no sign of anyone, and I made my way back into Monte Carlo, restless and dissatisfied. I seemed to have made no progress, and the little I had learnt was only disquieting. And then, just as I was nearing the hotel, I came suddenly to a standstill. My pulses were beating fast, I was conscious of a queer sense of excitement. The tumble-down motor-car was standing outside a haberdasher's shop!</story>