<story title="THE TORTOISESHELL PRINCESS" date="1915">
MARTIN'S methods with maîtres d'hôtel were a mystery to me. His appearance, although in its way striking, was not particularly distinguished, and I never to my knowledge saw him give a tip. Yet I certainly have never seen anyone, from an African millionaire to an English duke, who commanded more instantly their implicit and willing service. We walked into the Casino at Nice one evening, only a few minutes before the popular hour for dinner. The procession—it was Carnival night—was already being heralded in the streets below. The crowd of people clamouring for tables seemed endless, yet within five minutes, we, who had done nothing towards engaging one, were sitting at our ease, close to the window, watching the seething multitude below.

The whole scene was decidedly restless. There was a continual hubbub down in the square from the crowds of spectators and the advance guard of the Carnival procession. There was hubbub, too, in the room around us from people disappointed of their tables, clamouring for more space, badgering, bullying and cajoling the unfortunate waiters whose duty it was to dispose of fifty dining tables when a hundred and fifty were required. All this we sat and watched with contented minds.

'How do you manage it?' I asked my young friend wonderingly.

He smiled—a long, slow smile which seemed to start at the corner of his eyes and spread itself gradually over his smooth-shaven and somewhat considerable countenance.

'I have the manner, Colonel,' he confided. 'They understand me, these fellows. Within two minutes, see what will happen—cocktails! There are people at the next table who have been clamouring for cocktails long before we came into the room, and yet, behold!'

A wonderful person, with the smile of a courtier and the benign grace of a clerical dignitary, held a silver tray between us on which reposed two glasses filled with yellow, frosted liquid. Martin raised his to his lips and nodded to me. This time, however, I saw the flash of gold which passed into the man's hands.

'It is all so dead easy,' my companion continued, as he studied the menu. 'People are never tired of trying to get the best possible without paying for it. That's where they come a cropper. Pay—always pay—that's my motto. If you want something, don't expect to get it for a few civil words and a smile. People, especially down in this part of the world, and people connected with fashionable restaurants particularly, aren't used to it.... Here they come, you see, two waiters to receive my order. And here goes. I've thought out a dinner which I guess will keep us from starvation for a bit.'

Martin's order, translated by one waiter and scribbled down by another, commanded at once their joint respect and my wonder.

'Are we going to eat all that?' I asked when they had departed.

'We are not,' my young friend admitted. 'It is only part of my general principle—the principle of paying. Why should we expect the best table in the room and then turn around and order a simple dinner and a bottle of hock? Not at all. We wanted this table and it's worth the price of the best dinner the place can serve. That's about what I've ordered. We'll eat what we fancy and give the rest the go-by.... By gum, look who's coming! It's the Tortoiseshell Princess!'

She came straight towards us until intercepted by a watchful maître d'hôtel—the Princess Cara Sagastini, an Italian lady who occupied the adjoining table to ours at the Hôtel de Paris at Monte Carlo, and whom, from her peculiar taste in jewellery, my sister had christened 'The Tortoiseshell Princess.'

In that entire roomful of irritated people there was probably no one else quite so angry as our hotel acquaintance. Not that she showed it in any ordinary way. Her lined, waxen face was undisturbed by any flush of colour, her bright black eyes were half closed, her voice was as low as ever. Yet the waiter to whom she talked seemed to cower beneath her words like a whipped dog. He looked around the room as though praying that heaven might send him what there certainly was not—either an empty table or space to put one. And finally her gaze rested upon us. Martin, who had divined the situation, rose promptly to his feet

'Good evening, Princess,' he said. 'Say, I hope we haven't got your table?'

The Princess regarded us both steadfastly through her lorgnette. Martin did not for a moment flinch. At the end of her scrutiny his expression, if anything, was more bland than ever. She shut up her eye-glasses with a little snap.

'You have,' she replied curtly. 'It is a table which I occupy four nights a week.'

'Come now, that's too bad,' Martin regretted. 'You must join us, Princess. You are alone, I see, and there's heaps of room. We sit within a few yards of one another day by day at Monte Carlo. Let's join up and sit together for once.'

I am firmly convinced that the Princess for the next few seconds was really occupied in a strenuous effort to find some reply sufficiently crushing to reduce my young friend to pulp. However, she failed. She failed, and all the time Martin smiled genially upon her. Suddenly she broke into an unexpected little laugh.

'But why not?' she exclaimed.

She accepted the chair which I was holding for her. The relief of the maître d'hôtel was a thing beyond description. The Princess picked up the menu and studied it through a tortoiseshell-rimmed eyeglass.

'After all, one must eat,' she murmured, her soft Italian accent making her words sound almost musical.

'No need to bother about that, ma'am,' Martin declared genially. 'I have already ordered enough for four people as it is. You'll be my guest.'

The Princess leaned back in her chair and contemplated Martin through her wonderful lorgnette. I am convinced that this extraordinary young man represented to her a new type of being. His complete assurance, his natural belief that he was doing the usual and reasonable thing, were almost convincing.

'What is your name?' she asked. 'Colonel Green's I know, of course, but yours?'

Martin produced a card from his waistcoat pocket.

'Mr. Edmund H. Martin of Syracuse and New York City, ma'am—I mean Princess,' he corrected. 'Sorry, that's a kind of business card. My firm makes boots and shoes out there. Turn 'em out like apples at the busy season—three thousand pairs a day. It's some factory, ours, I can tell you.'

The Princess turned the card over in her delicate and wonderfully manicured fingers. Then she looked at me, and her thin lips relaxed into a smile.

'But he is inimitable, this friend of yours,' she declared, 'veritably an original! I dine with you. So be it, then. But I will not drink one of those nasty yellow things,' she added, pushing away the cocktail which Martin had ordered. 'A little red wine and some soda-water—no more.'

Martin surreptitiously withdrew the wine-glass from her plate, and after toying absently with it for a moment or two, swallowed its contents. Meanwhile the Princess talked to us politely of the season at Monte Carlo, the gambling and the people.

'It is seventeen years,' she told us, 'since I missed a season. Then my husband was in attendance upon the late King and we were kept in Rome.'

'You play roulette or baccarat?' I inquired.

She smiled a little.

'Roulette always.'

'A bully game,' Martin declared enthusiastically. 'I can't follow that baccarat, and there's too much French going on about chemin de fer.'

'I do not understand your adjective,' the Princess said, but for me there is no excitement in the world like listening to the click of that little ball as it falls into its place. You bend over with straining eyes, you hear the croupier's voice—what a timbre! You realize that hundreds of thousands of francs are about to change hands.'

'Where do you play, Princess?' Martin asked curiously. 'I have only seen you once or twice at the Club.'

'Occasionally there,' she replied; 'occasionally at the Cercle Privé'. But—'

She broke off in her sentence, leaving it unfinished without either apology or explanation. The service of dinner had now commenced, and below, the carnival was in full swing. The procession had reached its final resting-place. The great heads swayed and leered at us. The crowd cheered or groaned at the little allegorical pictures as one by one they were drawn to their places. The Princess alone, of the three of us, remained indifferent to the hubbub and scarcely once glanced out of the window.

'Princess,' Martin inquired a little abruptly, didn't I understand you to say that you dined here four times a week?'

'I did say so,' the Princess assented.

'Now that seems kind of strange to me,' he continued reflectively. 'To tell you the truth, I can't exactly reckon this place up. It's always full, and yet there don't seem to be much to attract people except the shops. I'm all for Monte Carlo myself.'

The Princess smiled. She had the air of one possessing some knowledge which she preferred to keep to herself. Her smile puzzled me a little. She made no attempt to explain it, however. Dinner was almost at an end before she leaned forward in her chair.

'Mr. Martin,' she said, 'if I chose to do so, I could make you change your opinion about Nice.'

'Is that so?' he remarked politely, but entirely unconcerned. 'Of course, to-night's carnival night and all that—'

'I do not concern myself with the carnival,' the Princess interrupted. 'I will tell you something that will perhaps surprise you. I will tell you that within a few hundred yards of this place there is more excitement to be found than Monte Carlo itself could show you.'

'Now you're talking,' Martin declared, genuinely interested. 'I'd like to hear about it.'

The Princess fingered one of the quaint, uneven fragments of tortoiseshell which she wore strung around her neck in a long chain. Then she leaned back in her chair and called out softly to a man who was dining at the next table. He rose promptly to his feet and stood before her with a gallant little bow. I recognized him at once. It was Baron Ennesberg, a well-known figure upon the Riviera, the owner of immense estates in Russia, and reputed to be one of the greatest gambler in the world.

She talked to him for a few moments in Italian, her voice lowered, her hand resting upon his coat-sleeve. He listened, nodding gravely. His reply was evidently an assent. I noticed, however, that he glanced several times at us, and it was obvious that the Princess had, for some reason or other, introduced our names into the conversation. He resumed his seat. The Princess turned to my companion. Her lips wore a peculiar smile. The little lines in her waxen face seemed to have become more marked.

'It is permitted,' she announced, 'that I take you to a small club to-night. It will cost fifty pounds for you to cross the threshold. You find it too much?'

'Not in the least, Princess,' Martin assured her, 'if there is anything to be seen when we get inside.'

Again she smiled.

'You will at any rate understand,' she said, 'what it is that brings me here four times a week. Look around the room. Do you not recognize others here from Monte Carlo, whose presence might seem to you significant?'

We both obeyed. There certainly were several people there whose faces were familiar.

'I shall take you,' she promised, 'to a room where millions are won or lost, not in an evening but in a minute. I can show you the spot on which Baron Ennesberg set down his cheque for a million francs upon the red, and lost.'

'Say, that's some gambling!' Martin exclaimed, with bated breath.

'But I thought that roulette tables were forbidden here,' I ventured.

The Princess turned towards me.

'This is a private club,' she said, 'and those who belong to it raise it almost above the law. It has been in existence already for six months. If occasion arises that it must be closed, we shall have notice from the police and we shall move to another spot. Come, then, you are ready?'

We left the place with the Princess. Her own motorcar stood at the back entrance of the Casino, from which alone departure in vehicles was possible. She motioned us to enter. Martin, however, for a moment hesitated.

'Our own car is here,' he pointed out. 'We had better have that along. Then we can drive straight from the place, wherever it is, home.'

'I prefer not,' the Princess said firmly. 'I do not wish you to drive in your car to our destination. The fewer people who are in the secret, the better. I shall ask you, indeed, as gentlemen, to close your eyes as we pass through the streets.'

My companion dropped behind for a few moments to light a cigar, but he made no further objection. We stepped into a very beautiful limousine, upholstered in white, and we glided off.

'Remember what I have said,' the Princess enjoined in her thin, metallic voice. 'Your eyes closed, if you please. It is but a short distance.'

Personally, I felt very little curiosity as to our destination, and I kept my part of the bargain faithfully. We had been driving for scarcely five minutes when we alighted in a quiet street before a closed iron lattice-work gate. A small postern was opened by invisible means and we passed through into a court-yard. From a somewhat forbidding darkness the place was suddenly ablaze with electric lights. A concierge ushered us across a little open square into the hall of a moderate-sized house. The Princess led us up to a man who sat at a desk, and who scrutinized both Martin and me closely.

'These gentlemen are introduced by the Baron Ennesberg and myself,' the Princess announced. 'You will enter their names—Mr. Martin and Colonel Green. So!'

'Un mille deux-cent cinquante francs, monsieur,' the man murmured, with a bow.

Martin promptly produced some notes, which were swept unceremoniously into a drawer. Then the Princess led us farther on, and a footman touched a bell let into the wall. In a moment or two a door swung open before us. We passed into a vestibule and paused in front of another blank door. The same process was repeated. We entered then one of the strangest-looking apartments I have ever seen. It was much smaller than the room at the Sporting Club, and the centre was taken up by one roulette table, around which were rows of easy chairs, each one of which bore a visiting card let into a little ivory plate. The walls of the room were painted black and white, and the ceiling was decorated with some most amazing frescoes. The Princess sank into her chair and talked for a few moments to one of the managers. Then she turned to us.

'The seats here,' she explained, 'are all reserved for individual members, but the one on my right will be vacant for several hours, at any rate. You, Colonel Green, I am afraid may be disturbed. For the moment you can sit on my left.'

I did so, and I gazed around upon the strangest collection of faces I have ever looked into. Some of them were familiar—habitués of the Sporting Club. Others were unknown to me. They were all apparently of the same world as the Princess, but there was about them an air of deadly calm, of white, tense eagerness, a curious similarity of expression, indescribable but in its way singularly repulsive.

There was a Hebrew hanker, with grey hair and bushy eyebrows. He wore a very low collar, his neck was always thrust a little forward. His eyes had a restless habit of wandering over the board, as though he were taking note of all the chances. Next to him was a Russian, morganatically of royal birth, a man with snow-white hair and a straight, spiky, black moustache. His face was extraordinarily pallid, and so motionless that he seemed exactly like a waxen figure from some chamber of horrors.

A few places farther on was an old woman with a light golden wig. Her wrinkled neck and bony fingers were smothered with jewels. She sat watching the board with her underlip drawn back, looking for all the world like some bird of prey. There were chairs only for twenty-five people and about three-fourths of these were occupied. The Princess leaned towards me.

'You see here,' she whispered, 'the gamblers of the world. Behold, the wheel spins! There are fortunes passing, even during these few seconds.'

I looked down upon the table. I have never in my life beheld such a sight. There were rolls of bank-notes, stacks of hundred-franc plaques, cheques freshly written on the blotting-pad which pages were carrying around. On one carré lay a cheque upon which the ink was not yet dry. I rubbed my eyes as I looked at it. The signature was the name of one of the historical banking firms of the world, and it was for a thousand pounds.

'But what is the limit?' I asked the Princess.

'There is no limit,' she answered. 'Only at the stroke of each hour, the bank closes for ten minutes.'

'No limit!' Martin exclaimed softly.

'And the minimum stake?' I inquired.

'One hundred francs,' she replied. 'Behold!'

Before my eyes she thrust down five mille notes upon rouge. The ball dropped. The number was fourteen red. I looked around at the pile of notes, curiously fascinated. At a rough estimate, that single turn of the wheel must have cost the bank nineteen thousand pounds. Martin, with a cigar in the corner of his mouth and an air of great happiness, drew out a wad of notes.

'Say, this is something like a game. Colonel!' he declared. 'I'm coming into this!'

I staked a few five-louis pieces, winning and losing alternately. The smallness of my operations provoked a contemptuous smile from the Princess, who presently disregarded me altogether. Her eyes were fixed approvingly upon my companion, who was watching with calm composure the disappearance of a dozen mille notes. From that time she ignored me, and I found myself free to look about.

For some reason the place inspired me with a curious sense of uneasiness. The more I studied the faces of the people, the less I liked them. There was something un-human about them as they lolled back in their chairs, or watched the board with the grim fierceness of men and women who have cast away all ideas of pleasure and who gamble for their lives. There was scarcely any conversation.

Every movement, save the click of the ball as it fell into its place, was noiseless. The footsteps of the passers-by and the attendants sank noiselessly into the thick-piled carpet. Even the women's dresses seemed free from the faintest rustle. Only after each coup there was a queer little breathless tangle of strained voices. I leaned towards the Princess.

'Who is the responsible person here?' I asked. 'How does one know if one will be paid?'

She smiled.

'There are secrets,' she said, 'concerning which one must ask no question. This is one of them. Some say that we are subsidized from Monsieur Blond himself. One only knows that a hundred thousand pounds was paid out a few nights ago and the funds of the bank appeared untouched.'

I left my seat presently and strolled around. There were very few people indeed who were not gathered around the tables, but again these few whom I did meet gave me that curious impression of being supers in some play, unreal people passing backwards and forwards like shadows. There was a small American bar at the farther end of the room, the attendant of which had left his place and was standing on the threshold, looking curiously towards the tables. I recognized the man and spoke to him.

'Good evening, Charles,' I said. 'You have left the "Hermitage", then?'

He started at the sound of my voice, and moved back towards the bar. As he did so, however, he threw a last glance over his shoulder. I followed the direction of his eyes. It was obviously Martin in whom he was interested.

'I have been here for a fortnight, sir,' he replied. 'What can I give you, Colonel?'

I ordered a Scotch whisky-and-soda. After he had served it, the man came out from behind the counter and edged once more towards the threshold of the little room.

'Is Mr. Martin with you, sir?' he asked me softly.

I nodded. This time is was hard to ignore the concern in the man's face.

'Yes, he is with me,' I admitted. 'Why not? This place is all right, isn't it?'

'Oh, yes, it's all right,' the bar-keeper assented. 'Fortunes are made and lost here every few seconds. The place is all right. But—'

'But what?'

He drew a little nearer to me.

'It is the last word in gambling, this, sir,' he said. 'Men and women come here who are drunk with the lust of it. They bring their fortunes, all they raise, and fling them down upon a single coup.'

I nodded.

'Well?'

'If they lose,' Charles went on, 'and many of them lose, what can one not imagine? In eight days, monsieur,' he added, dropping his voice, 'there have been five deaths in the little courtyard there.'

I stared at him. The man's face, however, was strained and serious.

'One has read nothing of this in the papers,' I reminded him.

'Nor ever will,' Charles replied softly but emphatically. 'The bodies are taken away. They are found in various spots—never here. For the moment, the police are our servants. One may die out there and be found in the rue de Londres, a mile off. I should like to speak to Mr. Martin, sir.'

'I'll tell him,' I promised.

'Don't forget,' the man whispered, coming a little nearer to me. 'I've had enough of this place. You see the Russian gentleman over there?'

I followed the inclination of his head. It was the Baron Ennesberg who had just come in and was watching the table.

'Three nights ago,' Charles went on, 'he lost here seven hundred thousand francs. He was stripped, ruined, his last louis gone. That night a South American, who had been winning huge sums, was found dead two miles away in an evil quarter of the town. He was found there, but he was stabbed and robbed within fifty feet of the door here, against the fountain, and the next day Baron Ennesberg was here once more with a million francs to play with.'

I glanced incredulously at the man. He seemed on the verge of a nervous collapse.

'Have you been drinking?' I asked him sternly.

'Nothing to speak of, sir,' the man assured me. 'It isn't drink. It's fear. I've seen things during these last few days which I can't forget. I'm off to-morrow. They pay me more than double what I've ever been paid before but I can't stick it. No one drinks much. They are all drunk before they come, drunk with the sight of the gold and notes upon the table. They've no time for me. Look at their faces! When I leave this place tonight, I shall leave it for good.'

The man was speaking nothing but the truth. I looked at him closely and I was absolutely certain of it.

'To tell you the truth, Charles,' I admitted, 'I am more than half of your opinion. I don't like the place myself. But why are you watching Mr. Martin so?'

Charles leaned a little closer to me.

'Don't you see he's winning, sir?' he muttered. 'Send him in here for a drink, if you can. I want to warn him.'

I promised to do what I could and strolled along on the other side of the room. Martin was sitting in his easy chair, his cigar well home in his mouth, his hands in his pockets, his whole expression almost seraphic. Before him was the most enormous pile of notes I have ever seen. He sat looking down at them for several

'Faîtes vos jeux, messieurs,' the croupier called softly.

At first I thought that Martin was not going to stake at all. Then I saw him take a bundle of notes, so thick that he used both hands, and calmly arrange them around twenty-nine and all its combinations. The little pile grew higher and higher. People leaned forward to watch. The croupier delayed the coup. Then, when he had finished arranging his stake, Martin looked downwards, as though hesitating, at the pile of notes which still remained in front of him.

Suddenly he lifted them up and calmly placed them in the middle of his stack, upon twenty-nine en plein. Then for the first time I heard the sound of raised voices. A little murmur went around the table, a murmur that was almost a hiss. Men and women leaned forward and stared. The Princess looked at Martin almost with awe.

'Magnifique!' he murmured.

'I've a kind of fancy for that number,' he declared calmly, as the ball went clicking round.

'How much have you won?' she asked.

'A thousand pounds en plein,' he answered, 'and about five thousand on the carrés and chevaux'

'Magnifique,' she repeated. 'Little did I imagine, Mr. Martin, when I accepted a seat at your table this evening that I was being entertained by such a prince of gamblers. You have already won, is it not so?'

'Most of what I've put on,' the young man replied, 'is winnings. If I lose it, I shall still have had all my fun for nothing.'

The ball suddenly dropped into its place. One could almost feel the faint sob of indrawn breaths as men and women peered towards the board. Then came the croupier's voice, and even that shook a little:

'Vingt-neuf, noir, impair, passe.'

Again that curious sound of tremulous voices. For a moment everyone sat motionless. Even the croupier made no effort to pay. I stood with my eyes riveted upon the hoard. The thing seemed incredible. A woman almost opposite, who had been gazing at the number with distended eyes, suddenly burst into shrieks, beat upon the table with her hands, and was almost carried away by one of the attendants. The incident seemed to unloose all tongues. There were queer murmurs flashing backwards and forwards along the little line of men and women.

The croupier commenced his task. He paid first all the smaller amounts. He came at last to Martin's. Slowly he counted the notes and turned their faces towards my young friend, who each time nodded silently.

'Cinquante mille transversal,' he said softly at last. 'Cinq cents cinquante mille francs, monsieur.'

Martin accepted an enormous wad of notes and stuffed them into his coat pocket.

'Un carré de vingt mille francs,' the croupier continued. 'Cent soixante mille francs, monsieur. Aussi vingt-cinq mille cheval; quatre cent, vingt-cent mille francs, monsieur.'

Once more Martin stuffed two enormous wads of notes into his pocket.

'The en plein,' the croupier went on, 'dix mille francs. Trois cent cinquantes milles francs, monsieur.'

There was a queer vibration in the air. The pent-up feelings of every man and woman in that little crowd seemed to be escaping from their dried lips and parched throats. Their eyes seemed fastened with horrible intentness on the plump, good-natured figure of my beaming companion. The Princess came forward and tapped him on the shoulder.

'Mr. Martin,' she said almost solemnly, 'I congratulate you. It is the most magnificent coup I have ever seen.. Tell me, what have you won?'

'Sort of an idea,' Martin replied, 'that it works out at about a million and a half. I'll buy you a whisky-and-soda, Colonel.'

He slipped from his chair and took my arm. We passed down the room. A sudden impulse made me glance behind. Every head was turned towards us and the expression in every face was the same. A premonition of danger crept in upon me.

'Look as though they'd like to eat us!' I muttered.

Martin's eyes twinkled. There was not even the semblance of fear in his face.

'Colonel,' he said, 'dukes they may be, or princes, but a tougher lot of nuts than these I never set eyes upon, I guess I'm rather of your way of thinking.... Say, that's little Charlie from the "Hermitage", isn't it? Well, well!'

The anxious-looking little man in the white linen suit hastened behind the bar and bowed his acknowledgments of my young companion's recognition. I left them there, talking earnestly. Something impelled me to turn back into the main room. The game was still interrupted. The croupier was leaning back in his chair, playing idly with his rake. The cashier had gone from his desk.

There were barely thirty people in the place altogether, and these seemed to have broken up into little groups. Gradually one or two of these began to converge towards the bar. The Baron Ennesberg passed me, talking earnestly to another man of the same type, a man perfectly, even effeminately, dressed, but with a look about his mouth which I had once seen in the face of an apache in Montmartre on his way to the police station. Baron Ennesberg stopped me.

'Our charming young friend Mr. Martin,' he announced, smiling, 'has temporarily interrupted the proceedings here. He has achieved the desire of the world—he has broken the bank.'

'A temporary affair, doubtless,' I remarked.

'An affair of half an hour,' Baron Ennesberg continued. 'We have sent for more supplies. Meanwhile, in order to save delay, it has been suggested that Mr. Martin might be induced to lend the bank, say, a few hundred thousand francs of his winnings.'

'Mr. Martin is in the bar,' I pointed out.

Baron Ennesberg solemnly presented me to his companion, whose name I did not catch, but who I understood was officially connected with the place. They passed on then and I was on the point of following them, but a gesture from the Princess forbade me. She, too, had risen to her feet and was standing a little on one side. Against the black walls, her appearance gave me almost a shock. Her face was corpse-like, colourless, wrinkled, curiously Botticelli-like in its type and outline. She resembled a ghost, a reincarnation of something belonging to earlier days.

'Madame!' I murmured.

She leaned a little towards me.

'Where is your young companion?' she whispered.

'He is in the bar,' I replied.

'The bank,' she went on, 'is short of funds to-night. They have decided to ask him to lend a few hundred thousand francs.'

'A somewhat unusual course, surely?' I remarked.

'Perhaps,' she admitted. 'The place itself is unusual. The circumstances are unusual. The gigantic win of your friend was unusual. I would give you a word of advice, Colonel Green. Better for him to do as they ask.'

'I will tell him so,' I promised. 'Very likely he will not hesitate. On the other hand, if the idea does not appeal to him, he is likely to be obstinate.'

'It would be well for him to waive that obstinacy for once,' the Princess advised. 'I give you this word of warning because it is I who am responsible for your presence here. I had not anticipated a happening such as this, or I might perhaps have told you more about the place. You yourself, however, are doubtless acquainted with something of human nature. When I remind you that you are surrounded by men who are gamblers from the marrow of their bodies to their very souls, men drunk with the love of gambling, men to whom the proportions of life have disappeared, then I think that I may have said enough in warning. I have taken a fancy to your Mr. Edmund H. Martin, as he calls himself. Let him lend the bank, say, a half of his winnings, and slip away quietly a little later. He will do well then. It is my advice.'

She dismissed me and I turned back towards the bar. Even before I reached the little curtained archway which separated it from the main room, I was conscious of certain sounds which seemed, in a way, foreign to the place with its air of deathly quiet. I hastened on, entered the room, and my heart sank.

Martin was standing with his back to the counter, a large tumbler in one hand, whilst with the other he was making unsteady attempts to get a cigar into his mouth. His face was flushed. Although I had barely been parted from him for ten minutes, there was no mistaking the thickness of his speech.

'Colonel—my dear old Colonel,' he cried, welcoming me, 'come right in! A special whisky-and-soda, Charles, for my friend. Good fellow, the Colonel. One of the best. Gentlemen. Like you all to know my friend Colonel Green—late of the British Army.'

I acknowledged the salutes of seven men who seemed to have formed a sort of semicircle around Martin. To all appearance, they were seven very nicely behaved and very correctly attired members of the fashionable world. They were perfectly self-composed, quite courteous, and pleasantry amused by the obvious result upon their host of his libations. Nevertheless, it did not need the glance of almost frantic warning from Charles to help me to realize the position.

'These gentlemen,' Martin continued, 'friendsh of Baron Ennesberg here—want me to lend the bank quarter of a million francs. Shan't do it! Shan't do it, Colonel.'

'Well, I don't know, Edmund,' I replied. 'You've had an extraordinary win and you've broken up the game. I think I should be inclined to lend them something.'

'The affair is of no real consequence,' Baron Ennesberg said smoothly, 'but the proprietors regret so much keeping their clients waiting. It would be a convenience to them if Mr. Martin would comply with their request. The money could be returned in less than half an hour.'

'Unheard-of thing,' Martin declared stubbornly. 'Shan't do it. "Any limit?" I asked when I sat down. They all smiled at me, Colonel—sort of super-supercilious smile, you know,' he added, getting the word out with a gallant effort. '"No limit," I was told. All right. I played no limit. Devil'sh own luck, of course, but there you are. I've won a million and a half. Going to stick to it. Going to take it right back to Monte Carlo. Charles, where'sh my parcel?'

Charles handed across the bar an oblong brown-paper parcel, open at the ends so that the pink corners of the mille notes were clearly visible. Martin tucked it under his arm. Charles leaned across the bar.

'Mr. Martin,' he begged, 'don't you do it, sir. Don't you go out of the place with those notes like that. It wouldn't be safe in any place in Europe, sir. There's a fortune there.'

Baron Ennesberg nodded gravely.

'It is not my affair, of course,' he said suavely, 'but the advice of Charles is, without doubt, excellent. No man, Mr. Martin, has the right to carry a million francs' worth of notes in that way.'

'Ain't going to carry them that way,' Martin declared, with a triumphant smile, as he finished his whisky-and-soda and set down the empty tumbler. 'Look here—'

He opened his coat. One saw then that be had a huge inside-pocket into which he promptly dropped the parcel.

'Think I'm a jay,' he went on amiably, 'go brandishing a bundle of notesh about like that. Not me! Who's going to guess now? Come on, Colonel. Let's shay good-bye to the Princess.'

'You will honour us again some time, I trust, Mr. Martin?' Baron Ennesberg remarked.

'Sure!' Martin promised. 'This is some place, this is! Jolly good fellows, too, all of you. What shay just one more?'

I got him firmly by the arm, and as his invitation was met with a chorus of polite refusals, I managed to get him out of the bar. He insisted, however, upon making his adieux to the Princess.

'Very pleasant evening, ma'am,' he assured her, feeling in vain for the hand which she resolutely refused to offer him. 'Wish you luck.'

She looked at him and at me. There was an expression upon her face which I could not wholly fathom.

'I trust, Mr. Martin,' she said, 'that you will never regret your visit.'

I got him away then. The concierge helped us on with our coats and Martin distributed lavish gratuities in all directions. The porter in charge of the outside door, which remained inhospitably closed, stood with his hand upon the fastening.

'The taxi ordered for monsieur is there,' he announced.'Merci, monsieur! Merci bien!'

The door was suddenly opened, but we had no sooner crossed the threshold than it was closed behind us heavily and abruptly. We were now in the mysterious little court-yard in front of the house, and before we had taken a dozen steps across it, the electric lights on either side of us went out. Martin gripped my arm.

'Darned queer place, this, Colonel,' he muttered. 'Let's hurry.'

We reached the passage in safety and hurried on to the outside gate. The postern was locked. I thundered at the door of the concierge's office.

'Concierge!' I cried.

There was silence for a moment. Then from somewhere quite close we heard the soft pattering of footsteps. What followed was almost incredibly swift. We were suddenly surrounded. Not a word was spoken. Even the faces of our assailants were concealed by black masks. I felt my arms pinioned while a hand was passed over my clothes. Martin's coat was ripped open and the packet snatched away before he could even protest. Then the little postern gate in front of us was opened. Whilst we were still breathless, the figures of the men who had attacked us sprang through, one by one. The last of our assailants slammed the door, but I was just in time to get my foot in the opening. Nevertheless, by the time we had blundered on to the pavement, there was only one figure left. We saw him cross the street, clutching the packet under his arm. My blood was up, and I started to give chase. Martin, however, held me back.

'It's no good, Colonel,' he declared. 'They're too many for us. Damned swindle, all of it! Get in the taxi.'

I hesitated for a moment, but the man had already disappeared and I was conscious of a queer feeling that we were still being watched. I followed Martin, therefore, into the taxicab which was waiting in the street a few yards away, and we drove off at once in the direction of the town. We talked for the first few moments rapidly, and not very coherently. Martin examined his torn coat and gazed ruefully at the empty pocket.

'If you'd kept out of that bar—' I ventured to begin.

'I only had three drinks,' he protested.

'Then they were doctored,' I observed.

Martin sighed.

'Come to think of it,' he admitted, 'it does seem like that. Well, we're out of it with whole skins, anyway,' he added, as we turned into one of the brilliantly lit main thoroughfares.

We reached the Hôtel des Anglais. Our car was drawn up at the spot we had directed, waiting. I made towards it, but Martin, when he had paid the driver of the taxicab, took me by the arm.

'Just one little drink first, Colonel,' he begged.

'Certainly not!' I answered irritably.

I was not in the least inclined to share the philosophic resignation with which my young friend had apparently accepted the loss of a million and a half francs. With regard to the drink, however, Martin would take no denial. Exactly opposite the comer of the street where the car was standing there was a little bar, into which he led me. It was a cosy little room, well lit, and filled with a fair sprinkling of quite ordinary-looking people, the very sight of whom seemed to come as a relief after our exotic associations of the last few hours.

'We will take two whiskies-and-sodas,' Martin ordered. 'And now, if you like, Colonel,' he added, turning to me, 'I'll tell you just why I insisted upon one more drink before we start home. The reason is because it's the first I've had to-night.'

I stared at him.

'Why, I saw you drinking whiskies-and-sodas—'

'Not a bit of it, Colonel,' Martin interrupted, his thickness of speech altogether vanished and a new briskness in his manner. 'Charlie faked those drinks for me—just orange-water and soda.'

It suddenly dawned upon me that once again this most extraordinary young man had triumphed. He answered my gaze of eager inquiry with a little nod. Just at that moment a newcomer pushed his way hurriedly through the swing doors. He recognized Martin with an air of relief, and made his way towards us.

'Worked it all right, Charlie?' Martin inquired.

A packet, genuine enough this time, was drawn from the man's pocket and followed by several others. Martin retained one and handed the rest over to me.'

'Say, Colonel, you're the only one with whole pockets,' he remarked. 'Take care of these.'

'What about the other parcel, then?' I gasped—'the one they robbed you of?'

'Faked by Charlie here,' Martin explained, 'with a few of the genuine notes lopping out each end. The only way to get clear. Come on. I guess, perhaps, we'd best be making tracks. We'll take you along to Monte Carlo, Charlie. And here's your twenty-five mille to hug on the way over.'

The little bar-man wiped the perspiration from his forehead. His expression was beatific, even though his thanks were incoherent. We hurried out to the car, and in less than five minutes we were on the way back to Monte Carlo. Martin glanced back as we began to climb the hill.

'Say,' he exclaimed, stooping down to light a cigar, I guess the Tortoiseshell Princess knew what she was talking about! I've changed my mind about Nice.'</story>