<story title="THE LITTLE MARQUIS" date="1929">
THE quaint invasion of his otherwise empty carriage at one of the small stations between Cromer and Melton Constable, at first a mildly annoying episode, became to Jasper Slane, a few minutes later, a matter of benign and tolerant curiosity. It was evident that his prospective fellow- passengers were people of local consequence. First of all, a porter opened the door, and, glancing around, surreptitiously dusted one of the seats. Then a chauffeur in black livery deposited two dressing-cases and a kit bag upon one of the vacant places. As soon as he stood away, the station-master appeared, hat in hand. Following him, a solemn-faced, clean-shaven functionary in black cut-away coat, gray trousers and black bow tie, stepped into the carriage, and, turning round, extended his hand to the very diminutive person lingering in the background.

"If you will permit me. my lord," he murmured, in a deep, sonorous voice.

His lordship, helped by the stationmaster from behind and this obvious manservant in front, stepped into the carriage without any manifest need of such assistance. He was very small indeed—scarcely more than five feet high, with the sort of skin which looks as though hair had never grown upon it, a sensitive mouth and the eyes of a child. He was dressed in an old-fashioned tweed suit, of pepper-and-salt design, with broad-toed shoes, a four-in-hand tie of black satin of such dimensions that it seemed almost like a stock, and his hat was a flat-topped bowler of a fashion long since discarded. He wore heavy dog-skin gloves, and he might very well have stepped out of one of Punch's cartoons.

He sank into his corner seat, and turned toward the station-master. Jasper Slane almost started at the sound of his voice—unnaturally high- pitched, the thin treble of a child.

"Thank you very much, Mr. Stationmaster," he said. "We shall be very comfortable, I am sure. My trunk is safely in the van? . . . Good! . . . Mason," he added, turning to his companion, "you have remunerated the porter?"

"Certainly, my lord," replied Mason. The little man raised his hat pleasantly, the servant winked at the stationmaster, and the train glided off. Jasper Slane resumed his reading, but found it almost impossible to keep his eyes from straying toward this strange couple. The master drew from his pocket a Christie's catalogue, in which, after the first few moments, he seemed completely absorbed. The servant respectfully unfolded the morning paper, and began to read. So the journey commenced, placidly enough. Its end was to be otherwise.

* * * * *

It was not until nearly midday that Jasper Slane rose and stretched himself. His diagonally-placed vis-à-vis was still deep in a perusal of the catalogue, whilst his manservant had closed his eyes in slumber. Slane, disturbed by the frantic whistling of the engine, leaned out of the window and thereby probably saved his life. There was a final screech of the locomotive, a violent succession of jolts, and a sensation of delirium, as though that quiet, well-behaved country train had suddenly gone mad. Then the compartment seemed slowly to break up around them. A portion of the luggage racked behind the pompous-looking domestic was smashed in half by some obtruding force, and the man, with a groan, collapsed on to the floor.

Then they ceased to move. The carriage was inclined at a perilous angle toward the ground, and looked as though it might turn over at any moment. There was a terrific babel of shouting and groaning outside, and the hissing of escaping steam mingled with the slow crunching-up of woodwork. The accident, however, so far as they were concerned, seemed to be over. Jasper Slane, holding on to his end of the luggage rack, stared around him in dazed fashion. The manservant upon the floor was bleeding from the forehead and unconscious. His master was doubled up in a most extraordinary attitude upon the crumpled remains of the seat which he had occupied, his legs in the air, his knee almost touching his chin. He had apparently escaped being crushed to death by a trifle. He turned his head, and looked at Jasper Slane.

"Please help me down," he begged, in his funny, piping voice, without the slightest trace of emotion or distress.

Slane did as he was bidden. He took the little man almost in his arms, and deposited him upon the one seat which remained intact. Then he turned toward the door.

"I'll see if I can open it," he suggested. The rescued man took no notice. His eyes were fixed upon the figure on the floor.

"Is he badly hurt, do you think?" he asked.

"I shouldn't think so," was the consoling reply. "He only seems to have that head wound."

"Do you think he will have to go to the hospital?"

"Very likely, for a few days."

Then a curious thing happened. His neighbor looked across at Slane and smiled happily.

"That will be very pleasant," he said. "I hope they look after him well there, but it will be very pleasant. In the meantime I had better have the keys."

He went down on his knees upon the floor, felt in the injured man's pockets, and drew out a bunch of keys. He placed them carefully in his own pocket, and, without even a second glance at the unconscious servant, turned toward Slane with the smile still lingering upon his lips.

"Do you think we shall be kept here long?" he inquired.

Further speech just then was not possible, for someone had wrenched open the door, and they descended on to the track. The accident, after all, proved to be only a minor affair, but there was the usual miserable period of waiting around, and Slane, being something of a surgeon, busied himself in attending to several of the less severely injured. Presently a relief train appeared, in which he found an empty carriage, and seated himself once more in the corner.

Just as the whistle had blown, he heard an agitated little voice:

"Can I get in, please? Please, can I come in? Please open the door."

Just in time, a guard came running up with two dressing-cases, and, with Jasper Slane's assistance, the little man climbed into the compartment. He was still wearing his beatific smile.

"They have taken Mason off on the ambulance, train," he confided. "He is still unconscious, and the doctor said, he thought he might be in the hospital for at least a week."

Where are you going?" Slane asked.

To London," the squeaky voice piped out. "I am going to the great china sale tomorrow. Do you collect china. sir?"

"Well, I'm afraid I'm not a collector," Slane confessed, "but I have one or two rather good pieces of Ming."

His companion's eyes shone.

"Ming," he repeated. "I can tell you all about Ming."

"Have a sandwich first," Slane invited, drawing a package from his pocket."

"Thank you very much indeed, sir. I will eat a sandwich with pleasure. I do not know what arrangements Mason had made about luncheon. Will you tell me your name, please? Mine is Aberway— the Marquis of Aberway."

"Mine is Jasper Slane."

The Marquis stopped eating his sandwich. He looked hard at his vis-a-vis.

"Jasper Slane," he reflected. "Now that is very curious. Someone has told me something about you, Sir Jasper. I cannot remember exactly what it was, but I made up my mind once to write to you, only I could never find your address. You are not a doctor?"

"No, I am not a doctor," Slane acknowledged. "I am really nothing very much professionally. Occasionally, if there is a case in which I am interested, or if any of my friends is in trouble through no fault of his own, I try to help him, if I can do so without interfering with the law."

"A private detective!" the Marquis exclaimed exultantly. "That was it. I remember thinking how strange it was —a baronet, but a private detective."

"Have another sandwich," Slane suggested. His companion accepted the offering almost mechanically.

"Jasper Slane," he repeated once more. "When we get to London, may I come and see you?"

Slane handed him a card.

"Delighted to have—you look in at any time. I have a little house in Hampstead. It's rather out of the way, so you'd better telephone before you come."

"Hampstead is not far," the Marquis observed. "You must allow me—you must really allow me—one moment, please."

He fumbled with the fastenings of one of his flat dressing-cases, opened it, and triumphantly produced a bottle of white wine and some glasses.

"You will drink a glass of wine with me," he begged.

"Rather!" Slane accepted. "I was just wishing that I had brought my flask."

The Marquis produced two glasses and filled them. Jasper Slane stared at the label on the bottle, which was brown with, age, and almost illegible, sipped his wine appreciatively, and studied the label once again.

"This is a very marvelous wine to be drinking in a railway carriage," he remarked.

"I am glad that you find it so," was the gratified reply. "It is Château Yquem of a very old vintage. I know very little about wines—only that I am fond of them. If Mason were here, I should have had to drink mine with water. I am glad that Mason is not here. I hope that he will be ill for a long time. It would not distress me if he were to die."

Slane looked curiously at his companion. He was obviously entirely In earnest.

"If you don't like him," he inquired, "why don't you get rid of him?"

The Marquis laughed—a queer, metallic little sound it was, like a child's titter.

"Get rid of Mason," he repeated. "Why it was her ladyship who engaged him. She sent away Craske, who had been with the family for thirty-five years. If I told Mason to go—"

He paused, took another mouthful of sandwich and drank some more wine.

"This is all so exciting," he confided, "that I forgot myself. You must excuse me. Sir Jasper."

"Supposing you tell me all about Ming china?" the latter suggested good-naturedly.

The Marquis finished his sandwich, wiped his fingers with his handkerchief, replenished his companion's glass, and his own, and began. The words tumbled from his lips like a cascade—periods, dynasties, private marks, texture, color design—all like the waters of Lodore—speech which seemed to grOw shriller with eloquence, never deeper than the treble of a child Of eight. He was still in full swing when they ran into King's Cross Station.

"What a pity!" he sighed, looking around him. "I must come and see you, and tell you some more. You should understand all about china. Sir Jasper. I will come and see you, and we will go together to the museums."

"In the meantime, can I be of any assistance to you now?" Slane offered as he glanced out at the crowded platform. "I imagine you are not used to traveling without a servant."

The Marquis chuckled.

"I have not been a yard without Mason since he came to me," he confided. "I hope very much that he dies. Good-afternoon, Sir Jasper Slane."

He removed his strangely-shaped hat with courtesy, superintended the disposal of his bags, and disappeared.

Slane watched him step into a taxicab.

* * * * *

THAT was the last the world saw of Henry James Marmaduke, Marquis of Aberway, for some weeks to come.

WILL THE GENTLE.MAN WHO TRAVELED IN THE RELIEF TRAIN TO LONDON WITH THE MARQUIS OK ABERWAY AFTER THE RAILWAY ACCIDENT NEAR MASSINGHAM ON THE 17TH INSTANT, COMMUNICATE WITH THE MARCHIONESS AT ABERWAY HOUSE, BERKELEY SQUARE.

A very tired but very beautiful lady of foreign appearance roused herself languidly from her environment of silk sheets, lace-edged pillows and perfumed coverlet to swear softly at the somber apologetic figure leaning toward her.

"Marie!".she exclaimed. "But this is unforgivable! It is not yet eleven o'clock, and you disturb me like this!"

"Milady," the maid apologized, "there is a gentleman below who has already been waiting some time. He offers a card, but his errand with you concerns, he says, an advertisement which appeared in the Times this morning."

The Marchioness became suddenly wide awake. She raised herself in bed.

"Is he the man, do you think, Marie, who traveled with my husband to London?"

"One imagines so."

"Draw the curtains," the Marchioness ordered. "Turn on my bath. Be polite to monsieur. Beg him to wait for a few minutes only. Say that I was a trifle malade, and resting, but will hasten now. Give him papers, magazines, make him comfortable. Then fly back. A negligée will be sufficient."

Confusion reigned thoughout that very beautiful bedroom, bathroom and boudoir for the next three-quarters of an hour. At the end of that time. Sir Jasper Slane rose with an irritated frown to be greeted by the outstretched hands and the apologetic smile of one of the most beautiful women in London.

"But Sir Jasper," she exclaimed, "how ashamed I am! For myself, I was at that terrible party at Bledistow Palace last night, and afterward—well, what does it matter? I was asleep when you came, but I have hurried—believe me. I have hurried. Now tell me. You traveled up to London after the accident, with that strange husband of mine?"

"I certainly did," Slane admitted.

She sank on to a divan a few feet away from him.

"Tell me—tell me quickly," she begged. "Did he talk to you? Did he tell you what he was going to do?"

"I understood," Slane replied, "that, he was going to buy china at Christie's most of the next day."

Up went her eyebrows. She extended her hands.

"Never did he go near Christie's!", she cried. "Neither, when he arrived in London, did he come here—his own house. No one has heard of him. Yesterday, I put an advertisement in the Times, and I telephoned to Scotland Yard. Sir Jasper, my husband has disappeared."

Slane smiled sympathetically.

"Do you know," he confided, "it rather occurred to me from the way he was behaving that he was contemplating something of the sort."

"But how extraordinary," she murmured. "Tell me. Sir Jasper, you had some conversation with him. How did my husband impress you?"

"Like an elderly schoolboy who has escaped from his schoolmaster and meant to play truant for a time," was the prompt reply. "I know nothing definite about the matter, of course. Your husband talked more about china than anything else, but from the remarks he made when he saw his servant unconscious, with a wound in his head, and knew that he had to be transported to a hospital, I gathered that his attitude toward him was not altogether friendly."

"Henry is so foolish," she faltered with a tender little uplifting of the eyebrows, "there is no one in the world so devoted to him as Mason."

"And how is Mason getting on?"

"He is still in the hospital. My great concern is with my husband. You are sure. Sir Jasper, that he gave you no idea whatsoever as to what he meant to do?"

"Not the ghost of a one."

The Marchioness extended her beautifully shaped hands.

"Here is his house," she said. "His rooms are all prepared for him. The car was waiting at the station. You are sure that he had no injury in the accident which could cause forgetfulness?"

"None at all," Slane declared confidently. "So far as we were both concerned, the accident was more comic than anything else."

She sighed in disappointment. "You do not seem able to help me very much," she complained.

"How can I help you further?" he rejoined. "You advertised in the 'agony column of the Times for the man who traveled up from the scene of the accident to King's Cross with the Marquis of Aberway. I hurried round, and what I have to tell, I have told."

She looked at his card again.

"Sir Jasper Slane," she meditated. "The name seems somehow familiar to me."

His gesture was entirely noncommittal. She reflected for a moment.

"Tell me, have you not a profession?" she asked.

"I am a private detective when I find a case which interests me," Slane admitted.

"I knew it!" she exclaimed excitedly. "You were a witness in the Le Bretton case. I shall offer you a thousand pounds reward to find my husband."

Jasper Slane rose to his feet.

"I will hurry," he announced, "or Scotland Yard may get ahead of me. One thousand pounds, dead or alive, eh?"

"Dead or alive," she repeated.

He left her with a disagreeable impression— a queer instinct of repulsion against the callousness with which she had dispatched him upon his errand.

* * * * *

HENRY JAMES MARMADUKE, Marquis of Aberway, was at no time a person of particularly dignified appearance, but his attitude in the small parlor, seated upon his haunches and endeavoring to spin a refractory top for the benefit of three shouting children possessed elements of the ridiculous. His absence of self-consciousness, however, redeemed the situation.

At his visitor's entrance, he laid the top on its side, patted the nearest child on her head, and rose to his feet.

"Sir Jasper Slane!" he exclaimed, in that strange, piping squeak. "Now, how did you find me, I should like to know?"

"Well, I was offered a thousand pounds, for one thing," was the good-humored reply. "That quickens the wits."

"Come with me," the Marquis invited, leading the way across the passage, and opening another door. "You see, I have a little parlor to myself here. Not much room for a big man like you, but very snug for me."

A neatly-dressed woman was bending down, attending to the fire. She curtsied as the two approached.

"Craske wished to know if there was anything he could do about this gentleman, my lord," she asked, looking at Jasper in belligerent fashion. "He slipped in before I could say a word."

"Nothing at all," the Marquis assured her pleasantly. "He is my friend, Emma. I shall enjoy a few minutes' conversation with him."

The woman curtsied once more, and left the room.

"Old servants of mine," the Marquis explained. "Craske was the family butler, and the best in the world. He left at her ladyship's wish—not mine. He may return—who knows? I feel that things are going to be different. . . . So you have seen my wife. Sir Jasper. Did she seem very worried at my disappearance?"

"So much so that she offered me a thousand pounds' reward if I could find you."

The little man smiled knowingly.

"The thousand pounds' reward was not for finding me. Sir Jasper," he declared. "It was to find out whether I had the keys."

"The keys?" Slane repeated, mystified.

"Yes, the keys. You have not forgotten that when Mason was lying there groaning, I went through his trousers pockets and found a bunch of keys. Here they are."

He produced them, attached by a chain to his trousers button.

"Her ladyship would give a thousand pounds for these, I believe," he went on. "You didn't happen to mention that I had them, did you, Sir Jasper?" he added anxiously.

"I certainly did not."

"You showed an amazing discretion," the Marquis acknowledged, in a tone of relief. "It is what I should have expected from you, Sir Jasper. You're a very shrewd man, I am sure."

"Look here," Slane inquired, "how long are you going to stay here?"

"I am very happy with my friends, Mr. and Mrs. Craske," the Marquis confided. "I am studying Chinese at the Museum opposite. Already I have been able to decipher several inscriptions which I have never properly understood. That takes quite a great deal of my time. Still, everything must come to an end, especially now that you have discovered me. But, Sir Jasper—Sir Jasper, please grant me a great favor. Before you go back to my wife to claim that thousand pounds, will you accept a small commission from me?"

Slane smiled encouragingly.

"I will, if I can, of course," he promised. "What is it?"

"I am going down to Norfolk this morning—starting at once—back this evening. One half-hour in the house alone. That is all I want. We come back together. You shall return in triumph. I will go with you to Berkeley Square."

"Well, that sounds simple enough," Slane agreed, "but why do you want to go all the way down there for such a short time?"

The Marquis swung his bunch of keys, and laughed his shrill little laugh.

"Some day you shall understand," he promised. "Very soon, too. I may need your help. You see. We start at once."

He pointed out of the window. A large, expensive car was drawn up at the curb.

"We can lunch at Newmarket," he went on, "have a cup of tea at home and be back for dinner."

Slane reflected for a moment. As it happened, he had nothing particular to do that day.

"All right. I'll come," he decided.

The Marquis rang the bell. An elderly man who had the unmistakable air of a butler answered it, brought him a coat and hat, and escorted them respectfully to the car. The Marquis leaned back in his place with a shrill titter.

"This is going to be very funny," he declared. "This is an expedition I shall enjoy. And let me tell you something, Sir Jasper. In Norfolk I was ill. Here I am feeling better every hour. . . ."

At half-past three they entered the first of the series of lodge gates which led to the house. Afterward they passed into a domain of greater dignity studded with magnificent trees, and finally emerged in front of a great mansion. A surprised servant answered their summons. The Marquis tripped across the hall like a schoolboy.

"Bring me a knife, Robins," he ordered the footman.

The man obeyed in stupefied silence. The Marquis calmly hacked in two the main telephone cord.

"Tell Mrs. Simmons or somebody to send tea to my small study as soon as possible," the master of the house ordered. "I am going to the butler's pantry."

"Certainly, my lord," the man replied. "I am afraid you will find the door of the butler's pantry locked, though. Mr. Mason took the keys away with him."

The Marquis produced the keys, and indulged in one of his peculiar staccato chuckles.

"Might I inquire how Mr. Mason is, my lord?" the man ventured.

"Mason is getting on very well," the Marquis announced. "You needn't wait, Robins. The little business I have in the butler's pantry I shall do alone. Show this gentleman into the small library. Just five minutes, that is all."

In less than that time, the Marquis, with the keys once more attached to his chain, entered the room where a footman and a maid were arranging tea.

"Let the chauffeur have anything he wants," their master directed. "Bring cigars and whisky for Sir Jasper here, and tell Mrs. Simmons that I wish to speak to her." . . .

In ten minutes, Mrs. Simmons, the housekeeper, who showed signs of having changed her dress in a hurry, made her appearance. Her august master greeted her in friendly fashion, but his tone when he spoke was, for him, exceptionally grave.

"Mrs. Simmons," he announced, "I have disconnected the telephone. I have done so for reasons of my own. I do not wish any mention to be made to any single person of my visit here. I do not wish even her ladyship to be informed— or anyone. You understand me?"

"I understand, my lord," the woman assented, a little diffidently, "but you will forgive me if I point out that all the papers are speaking of your disappearance since the railway accident. Surely it would be a great relief to her ladyship?"

"I dine with her ladyship tonight," the Marquis interrupted. "My orders— and I have seldom given orders here lately, as you know, Mrs. Simmons— are to be obeyed literally. Any person who telegraphs, or speaks now or at any future time, of my visit here today, will leave the house within an hour. That, I hope, is understood."

The housekeeper, trying in vain to conceal her bewilderment, curtsied and backed away.

The journey back to London was accomplished without a pause. As they neared the outskirts, however, Slane broke a rather lengthy silence.

"What about announcing your return to life. Marquis?" he asked.

The latter smiled.

"I myself will proclaim your triumph," he decided. "You shall put me down at Berkeley Square. You admired my wife, I trust, Sir Jasper? I met her in Bucharest years ago. She is a Roumanian, as I daresay you have heard."

"I fancy that I have heard something of the sort," Slane acknowledged.

"I have met some Roumanians whom I have liked," the Marquis reflected, "but I am not sure about the men. My wife's cousin, now—Prince Pitescue— he is a great deal with us, but I fear that he does not appeal to me. You shall judge for yourself. You shall tell me what you think of him. You are free for this week-end, I hope. I need your services. I insist upon having them."

Slane, who had an idea of a week-end at Rye, hesitated.

"Well, I am not sure," he demurred. "What for?"

"You have earned a thousand pounds from her ladyship for finding me," the Marquis chuckled. "How she will hate paying it! I shall give you a thousand pounds now to be my companion and protector for five days. We shall spend the week-end at Aberway Court, and you will come down on Friday. Your duties will not be strenuous, but do you know. Sir Jasper, just for a day or two, I would rather not be in the house alone with her ladyship and the Prince. Something might happen. I might need support. I should like a friend near."

The car pulled up in front of Aberway House in Berkeley Square. Its master descended briskly. He held out his hand to Slane.

"I thank you very much for your company today, Sir Jasper," he said. "You will not fail me on Friday?"

"No, I'll come," Slane promised.

* * * * *

JASPER SLANE duly traveled down to Norfolk by the three- o'clock train on the following Friday afternoon. He was met at the wayside station by the Marquis, who piped out the shrillest but most hospitable of greetings. He trotted by Slane's side along the platform, obviously pleased and contented with his visitor.

"We are a very small party," he announced, as they took their places in the car—"my wife, her cousin Prince Pitescue, of whom I spoke to you, yourself and myself. You play billiards?"

"Rather fond of it," Slane admitted. "I'm only average form though."

The Marquis beamed with pleasure.

"My favorite recreation," he confided. "After dinner, we will have a game."

"What about your man Mason?"

"He's hanging on still," was the cheerful reply. "That injury must have been greater than it seemed. I called at the hospital, but he won't be allowed to see anyone for a fortnight. Really most providential, his little accident! Did you get your thousand pounds, Slane?"

"I did," Slane acknowledged, "but I returned the check to your wife. The thing was ridiculous. Fifty guineas I shall send in a bill for. That will more than pay for my time."

"We'll see," the Marquis chirped. "There may be a few other little things to straighten out, eh?"

The Marquis, in high good humor, ushered his guest across the hall, and, preceded by an august major-domo, conducted Slane to his very delightful suite of rooms. He glanced at the clock.

"Short coat tonight, please," he begged. "We are quite alone. A little old-fashioned in our hours, I am afraid. Dinner at eight. I hope you don't mind. Cocktails at a quarter to eight in the library. Robins," he added, turning to the footman who was in attendance, "see that Sir Jasper lacks nothing."

* * * * *

The Marchioness was, without a doubt, a wonderfully beautiful woman. She wore black that night, a marvelous setting for her priceless pearls and her almost golden hair. She came forward to meet Slane, and shook hands with him as with an honored guest.

"And you sent back my thousand pounds, you bad man!" she exclaimed. "It was not kind of you. It was quite worth that to get my dear husband back again."

"I am afraid it was a little too easy a task," Slane replied. "You see, I happen to know one of your husband's hobbies, and I felt sure that he would be somewhere round the Museum."

"I am keeping up my Chinese," the Marquis confided, smiling. "I find it most interesting. Anita, my dear, don't forget to present Sir Jasper to your cousin."

"Of course not. Sir Jasper, this is Prince Pitescue. He has just left our legation in London, and is hoping to be sent to New York. You have perhaps met."

"I think that I have not had the pleasure," the young man murmured regretfully.

Slane shook hands, and disliked his new acquaintance on sight. The Prince had the sallow complexion, dark eyes, and rather too full red lips of his country. His attire was elegant, almost foppish. He was evidently a frequent visitor, and had the air of being very much at home—so much so that he seemed to regard his fellow guest almost as an intruder. The conversation had scarcely passed the monosyllabic stage when it was interrupted by the arrival of cocktails. Two of these stood together upon a corner of the tray; the other two, a little way apart. The Marquis smiled as his wife took one of the former.

"In Mason's absence," he explained, "it is my wife who prepares the cocktails. Very good we find them too. You observe that our glasses are not scanty in size. That is because we never serve more than one. That is yours. I hope you approve."

"Excellent! One of the best Martinis I have had for a long time. Why is it, however, that mine is quite clear, and yours a little cloudy?"

"Mine," the Marquis confided, "contains just a pinch of bicarbonate of soda. In fact we three have all the same idiosyncrasy—just a touch of indigestion now and then—nothing serious. You, Sir Jasper, look far too healthy to need anything of that sort."

"Oh, I sometimes take a dose of bicarbonate of soda," Slane admitted, "but I must confess that I never heard of taking it in cocktails."

"My wife's idea," the Marquis chuckled. "I used to shy at it. Now we none of us mind—even our young friend here, who at his age—how old are you Rudolph? Twenty-nine?— should know nothing of illness. It is, however, a habit," he went on, his voice seeming to reach even a higher altitude, "in which I am not sure that I persevere. Sometimes I fancy—especially since Mason left—that I feel a slight pain—nothing to speak of. No reflection upon your skill, my dear. Still, my digestion is better. Why interfere with it?"

"So is mine," the Marchioness agreed. "I think we might leave off dosing our cocktails for a time. We'll see—after tomorrow. . . ."

Dinner was announced—a wonderful banquet served in the large dining- room, generally called the banqueting hall. As the meal progressed and the daylight faded, candles in silver candelabra of great height were lit upon the table.

The food was wonderful, and Jasper Slane, who was a constant "diner-out," found himself drinking wines of which he had heard but which he had never tasted. The service was noiseless and perfect—the men in their somewhat worn but picturesque livery passed backward and forward like shadows. The Marchioness at times seemed vaguely uneasy. She watched Slane half curiously, half suspiciously—more than once she and the young man exchanged a rapid glance of mutual comprehension. All the time, the Marquis, in his high-pitched childish treble, talked nonsense, yet nonsense which seemed as though it might have some underlying purpose. The meal moved with a sort of effortless grace of service and luxury to its appointed end. Fruit, hot-house peaches and muscatel grapes, port in amazing decanters, and old madeira, were placed upon the table.

"The last of my '68," the Marquis indicated shrilly. "For you alone, I fear, Sir Jasper. One glass, perhaps, for me. The Marchioness knows nothing of port, nor, I am afraid, does Pitescue. '68 Cockburn—never been touched since it was laid down."

"It is marvelous," Slane truthfully admitted, as he sipped his wine.

The Marchioness and her cousin drank madeira. The latter lit a cigarette. His host made a grimace, but forebore from comment. He raised himself higher upon the cushion which was always placed in his chair.

"Listen," he enjoined, "I am going to tell you something which seems to me very strange—you, particularly, Anita —you and Rudolph."

He looked around. The servants had departed. For long afterward, that scene was to remain in Slane's memory, chiefly on account of its dramatic setting— the cathedral-like room, with its cloistered ceiling, the small, round table, a little pool of shaded illumination in the midst of a gloom almost mysterious, three white faces, two of them growing paler with every spoken word.

"Before I went to London," the Marquis began, leaning forward, "I was not well. For four days I had been taking this bicarbonate of soda mixed for me with my cocktail by Mason, and I had pains which I could not understand, and a weakness which seemed to be increasing hour by hour. Yet all the time, you two," he went on—"you, Anita, and my young friend Rudolph— you thrived on it. Young and blooming, both of you are, of course, whilst I am elderly. Still the difference puzzled me—so now I have played a trick upon you," he chuckled. "Tell me, Anita— tell me, Rudolph—how have you been feeling since we came down here, these last five days?"

There was a brief but tense silence. The expression of somewhat bored indifference with which the Marchioness had been listening passed from her face. She stared at her husband. The Prince laid down his cigarette. He, too, leaned forward.

"What do you mean?" the Marchioness asked shrilly. "I have not felt well. I never feel well in the country—but what of it?"

"I have suffered from headaches," the Prince confessed. "Early though we have retired, I have awakened the last two mornings with a very bad headache."

"On Thursday morning," his cousin added, "I nearly sent for the doctor. I had a pain over my heart, and a giddiness which was incomprehensible. What do you mean, Henry?"

The Marquis rocked from side to side of his cushioned chair with silent laughter.

"Last week," he confided, "when I was lost, I came down here. I went to Mason's cupboard."

"You did not have the keys," his wife broke in swiftly.


"Ah, but I did have the keys," he went on, smiling. "I took them from Mason's pocket when he was unconscious. Do not interrupt me, my dear. Let me have my little joke. I opened his cupboard and I saw that there were two bottles there—one blue and one white—both filled with white powder. Both were labeled 'bicarbonate of soda,' but one was also labeled—'For Lord Aberway only.' I—listen, Slane, for this is funny—I changed the contents. These two have been taking my bicarbonate of soda for five days. I have been taking theirs, and I feel well. Really I have never felt better. I could walk for miles. I was longing to play tennis this afternoon when I passed the Vicarage and saw all the young—Anita! Anita! What is wrong?"

The Marchioness' scream rang through the room. She half rose to her feet, pointing to her husband, but words, seemed to fail her, and she collapsed across the table.

"Rudolph!" she moaned.

The young man, who had already left his place, took no notice of her. There were drops of sweat upon his forehead. He rushed madly toward the door, shouting. Halfway there, however, he stopped and staggered back again.

"Where is there a doctor?" he cried. "Where is one to be found? Why don't you do something, Anita? This is your fault. It is you who are responsible. Why do you not send someone for a doctor? Oh, my God!"

His knees were shaking. His voice died away into a whimper. He collapsed into a chair. The Marquis touched Slane upon the shoulder.

"Come with me," he invited. "They are better left alone. They must have much to say to one another. We will have our game of billiards."

Slane, somewhat dazed, still lacking full comprehension of the inner meaning of the drama at which he had assisted, followed his host across the hall. The latter threw open the door of the billiard room, turned on the lights, and began carefully to chalk a cue.

"Any one of those is good," he said, indicating a row of cues which hung upon the wall. "You should give me something but I will try you level."

Slane pulled himself together.

"Marquis," he demanded, "do you suspect that one of those bottles really contained poison?"

"Of course it did," was the shrill reply. "Shall I break, or will you?"

"But you can't leave them like this if they are really poisoned," Slane expostulated. "You must find doctors."

The Marquis dragged out a stool from under the table, and touched Slane upon the shoulder.

"My friend," he said, "they would have given me months of agony, and a place in the family vault. I shall give them an hour in which to suffer, and no more. See—I play."

He mounted the low stool, which was specially made with squat, flat legs, and gave an accurate miss in balk.

"You mean?" Slane began.

"Trust me," the Marquis begged. "I am a quaint little man. I have my ways. Trust me."

There was commotion throughout the house, but they played their game of billiards without interruption. At the end, when the Marquis had won by over forty points, he regretfully laid down his cue.

"My friend," he said, "I see that you are upset. Now, come with me."

He led the way back to the dining-room. The Marchioness—the central figure in that little pool of shaded light—sat still in her place, white as death, her hand pressed to her heart, breathing convulsively. The young man was sprawling over the table, apparently drinking everything within reach.

"The doctor!" he shrieked. "Will he never come? Is there no antidote for this accursed stuff!"

"Antidote for sodina!" the Marquis exclaimed, closing the door. "Sodina is a poison invented by the Medicis, they say, found still in Italy—can be bought, too, I think, in Bucharest. A harmless-looking white powder, though six doses will suffice to kill the strongest man, and leave no trace behind. But it is not sodina that you have drunk, you— nor you, Anita. It is not the poison of which I have had four doses, and of which six would have killed me. For all your fancied pains, what you took tonight is bicarbonate of soda. You will not be much the worse for your experience unless you frighten yourselves to death. He-he!"

Anita looked strangely up. A light suddenly flashed into the glazed eyes of the young man, though he was still shaking from head to foot. Neither of them was capable of speech.

"You poor fools!" the Marquis scoffed. "I guessed the truth. I went to London to save my life, not to buy china. When the accident happened to Mason, the chance to teach you a lesson was too tempting. The poison is in a safe place, but you have taken none of it. I filled both bottles when I got back here with bicarbonate of soda. You have had your hour of fright—many would say that you deserved a stern lesson. The car which was supposed to fetch a doctor, waits, by my orders, still at the door. You can take it as far as you like, Pitescue. There are night trains running from Petersborough."

The young man stumbled from the room. He was tall and elegant, yet as he passed the little Marquis he seemed insignificant. The latter looked toward his wife.

"Your cousin is, I fear, somewhat disturbed," he said. "He forgot to invite you to accompany him."

The passion flamed from her eyes.

"He is a coward!" she cried. "Oh, God, how I hate cowards! Henry, if I go—and I deserve that you should send me away—it will not be with him."

The Marquis rang the bell. Almost immediately a footman appeared.

"Robins," he directed, "will you tell her ladyship's maid that her ladyship is fatigued, and will retire at once."

The man bowed and departed on his errand.

The Marchioness rose tremblingly to her feet, and moved toward the door, and again, as she passed the man who held it open for her, he seemed to gain in stature and dignity. She stooped down and kissed his hand. He bent his head gracefully, and closed the door behind her.

"And now, my dear Sir Jasper," he proposed, in his highest, shrillest tones, "we will have a serious game. We will play two hundred up, and I shall give you thirty, but you must allow me my stool and the rest. Robins," he added, as the man reappeared, "serve refreshments in the billiard room. Do not forget the Napoleon brandy."</story>