<story title="NOT SLANE'S STAR TURN" date="1929">
IF EVER the conversation in later life turned upon coincidences, Jasper Slane's thoughts traveled back to that night when a suddenly canceled dinner engagement left him free, and he strolled into the box office of the Globe Theater to see if by any chance there was a vacant seat for the famous crook play to which everyone in London was streaming. He found one near the end of the third row, and it was not until the finish of the first act that he was even conscious of his neighbor—a neatly dressed, spruce-looking man of early middle age, a little heavy in the cheek and jowl, perhaps, but with clear, bright eyes, an intelligent forehead and a straight, hard mouth. At the fall of the curtain on the first act he leaned back in his place with a murmur of disappointment. Slane glanced toward him questioningly, and caught his eye.

"Rather thrilling!" he remarked. The other agreed readily.

"It was quite all right until the end of the act," he pronounced. "That third-degree stuff, though, was punk. An American detective who's on the job doesn't act like that."

"Overdid the bullying, eh?" Slane asked. "I rather thought that was what they went in for."

The other smiled. The interval was only a very short one, and few people were leaving their places.

"It was the start of the gruelling that was so bad," he explained. "I tell you there's no honey bee in this world with a sweeter hum than the American detective when he opens up with his victim. He isn't going to bully or frighten him—not he. He'd like to be friendly —like to help him and get him out of any scrape he might get into. He pretends to be the kindest fellow that ever carried a hip flask. That's how he kids the other along, until he feels at ease, and begins to open up a little, maybe.

"They crack a few jokes. They're good fellows together. The detective pats his friend on the shoulder. The poor devil feels he's found a pal who'll help him—and a pal in the Force too! What luck! And so they go on, and all of a sudden the victim, talking now as easily as though he were chatting to his sister, says just the one thing the other's waiting for, and then, like a pistol shot, comes the change. The fellow's dazed beneath a fire of questions. He doesn't know where he is, whether he's on his head or his heels. Before he can collect himself, he's given himself away. A few seconds later, he's given somebody else away. Before the detective's finished with him, he's told the whole story. That's the way they do it in New York. They don't commence by shouting and bullying like that fellow on the stage did."

"How do you happen to know so much about it?" Slane asked with interest.

The man picked up his program. The bells were ringing through the house, and the lights were lowered.

"Ah!" he murmured meditatively, as the curtain went up. . . .

After the next act, his neighbor reached for a hat under the seat, and turned to Slane.

"If you care for a whisky and soda," he said, "I'll tell you how I happen to know."

Slane accepted with a certain amount of alacrity. The two men made their way along the crowded passage to the saloon. Conversation was impossible, and Slane found himself taking the opportunity of trying to place his prospective host. He was a broad-shouldered, well set-up man, a trifle under medium height, and he had the air of having passed much of his life in cruder places. Nevertheless, he wore his well-cut clothes with the air of a man accustomed to them, and seemed perfectly at his ease. He did not attempt the long coat mostly affected by men at fashionable theaters, and his collar, notwithstanding its long points, was that of the variety grudgingly accepted for use in the home dining-room by the arbiters of fashion. Everything about him, however, was very clean and neat. Slane put him down as a successful American business man who had learned enough by travel to conceal the evidences of a possibly indigent youth. His eyes were perhaps his most unusual feature. They were almost as dark as sloes, and they seemed to appear unexpectedly in his head without definite setting like floating pools from which came flashing sudden lights. His voice was never obtrusively transatlantic.

"Guess we'll have to stand up," he said. "No, there's a corner—and a waiter. Two Scotch and soda, waiter."

They were fortunate enough to find two just vacated chairs. Slane offered his cigarette case.

"Now tell me how you happen to know so much about American detectives," he begged.

There was only a second's hesitation, but in that second the other had ascertained exactly who was and who was not within earshot.

"I'm one myself," he confided.

He drew from his waistcoat pocket a small case, and passed a card to his companion. Upon it was engraved in plain block letters:

DETECTIVE EDWARD CROSS
POLICE HEADQUARTERS, CHICAGO

"Well, you ought to know all about it," Slane remarked, as he pocketed the card. "Slane, my name is—Jasper Slane."

"I've had twenty years' experience," the other continued. "I guess I ought to know a good deal about it. Chicago's as good a school as any, these days."

"Are conditions there exaggerated?" Slane asked. "Some of the newspaper stories are hard to believe."

The American laughed—not an effort of mirth at all—a hard and bitter laugh.

"Well," he answered, "you can't believe everything you read. Still! Mr. Slane—I think you said your name was Slane?"

"That's right."

"There's a lot that happens in Chicago that doesn't get into the papers. It's a great place, if you like excitement. But I'm quitting. I've had enough."

The bell rang, and they returned to their places. At the next interval it was Slane who became host. He found the conversation of his neighbor intensely interesting. They left the theater together later on.

"Care for a sandwich and a glass of wine somewhere?" Slane suggested.

"Great!" the other assented heartily. "Wait one moment, will you?"

They stood on the steps of the theater, Detective Cross looking around him. A man on his right, indistinguishable, glided up and whispered in his ear. Cross nodded. Another came from the other side—another whispered word.

"That's all right," the detective said to his companion. "Now I'm ready. Just a couple of reports I had to receive, that's all. How about going to the Milan?"

They entered a taxicab and drove off.

"Reports?" Slane repeated. "I thought you'd retired from the Force—"

Detective Cross moved a little uneasily in his seat. Suddenly he sat up.

"Slane," he murmured—"Jasper Slane. Say, have you got a handle to that name?"

The other nodded.

"Yes," he admitted. "Sir Jasper Slane I suppose you would address me if you were writing."

The detective's face seemed to relax.

"Say, that's great!" he exclaimed, leaning back. "And to think of me sitting next to you at the theater! We don't get many like you over on the other side. I think the professionals would freeze them out, or try to. Sir Jasper Slane—gentleman detective. You were in that Young case—and I always say that they'd never have nabbed Billy Neilson but for your work at the start."

"Neilson was a foul brute," Slane declared. "He deserved what he got."

"Sir Jasper Slane," his companion repeated, as the taxicab turned in at the Milan courtyard. "Well, well! Let's get out at this entrance. I hate the restaurant at this time of night. Too much jazz about it. Can't hear yourself talk. We'll find a quiet spot in here."

They selected a table in the grill room, and ordered a light supper. Detective Cross was obviously very much interested in his companion.

"Have you been down to Scotland Yard yet?" the latter asked.

"Not yet," Cross admitted. "I'd like to meet some of your men, but—of course I didn't know whom I was talking to, or I wouldn't have been so careful— I'm not over hero for my health."

Again those strange-looking eyes were floating round the room. With a curious instinct for selection Cross had chosen a table between two theatrical groups, and out of possible hearing of any outsiders.

"I'm after Chandler," he confided, under his breath—"Josh Chandler."

"What, is he on this side?" Slane exclaimed. The detective nodded.

"He made even Chicago too hot for him. He killed a deputy sheriff last month, and got orders to skip. So he did. We meant to get him, all the same. He shot two of our men the night after. Damned good fellows too! Shot 'em like cold pigs. They'd have torn him to pieces if they'd found him in Chicago. He made a get-away though. I can't tell you now how he managed it, but he's in London."

"Have you any line on him?"

"Not at present. I'm working on one of my own theories. There's one thing Josh could never keep away from, and that was a crook play. He saw every one that came to Chicago, and he'd travel all the way to New York to see a new one. That's why every night I'm here at a crook play. I have a man at each end of the boxes and a man up in the dress circle, and I guess that ought to be enough. Josh wouldn't use a cheap seat. They know where I am, and they'd report after the first act if they came across him. In the meanwhile I'm trying a few other stunts."

"What sort of place do you suppose he'd stop at?" Slane asked.

"Here, as likely as not," was the taciturn reply.

"Have you ever seen him? Any description to go by?"

"Yes, I've seen him," the detective admitted. "I'm not sure that I'd know him at a glance, but I'd know him if I was in his company for five minutes."

The influx of a gay little company of chorus ladies absorbed the whole attention of the American for some time, and conversation during the rest of the service of supper drifted away from the, to Slane, engrossing subject of the famous criminal. Over their cigars he ventured to return to professional matters.

"Surely you ought to call at Scotland Yard?" he suggested. "Isn't it sort of etiquette?"

"Maybe so," the other acknowledged. "But I'm not much on etiquette. I'm here to get my man, and the more I keep away from Scotland Yard the more likely I am to get him. You English are all right. I'm not saying anything against you, but you get so darned superior if you see a man in the same job as your own up against it."

"I think you're rather severe on us," Slane observed. "I know one of the best men at Scotland Yard very well indeed, and I'd like you to meet him."

"What's his name?"

"Stimpson—Detective Inspector Stimpson."

"I've heard of him," Cross admitted. "He's a good fellow. If I have any luck with my job I'll give a little party for a celebration, and you can bring him along."

"I'd like to," Slane agreed, "but—if you'll forgive my saying so, Mr. Cross —I can't understand your not communicating with Scotland Yard in any way. It seems to me that they might give you no end of help."

There was a faint suspicion of banter in his guest's smile.

"They might," he murmured, "but I'd rather get my man myself."

Slane paid his bill, and rose to depart. He took a card from his pocketbook, and laid it upon the table.

"Well," he said, "there's my address and phone number. Any night you feel like it, I'll get Stimpson to come up and dine with us. You won't find him trying to steal any of your thunder. He's a good chap."

Mr. Cross shook hands with his departing host warmly.

"I'll call you up in a day or two," he promised. "If I can't get on without help, I'll ask you to bring Stimpson along, and we'll have a talk. And if," he added, more slowly, "I get my man, then I'll give you both a dinner you won't forget. Good night, Slane—I beg your pardon—Sir Jasper."

"Slane to the profession," was the smiling rejoinder.

It amused Slane, during the remainder of that week, to visit one or two more of the crook plays which were just at that moment so popular in London, and at nearly every one of them he saw Detective Cross, seated always on the left-hand side of the stalls; trim, spruce and intent. Once or twice they exchanged greetings, but the detective had rather the air of desiring to escape observation, and though his manner was always perfectly friendly, there was something about it which warned Slane that he preferred to be left alone. One Sunday evening, however, when passing through the grill-room, a waiter ran after him, and tapped him on the shoulder.

"A gentleman would like just a word with you, sir, if you please," he said. "He is sitting just round the corner."

Slane recognized Cross, seated with a lady. He made his way to the table.

"Want you to know my wife. Sir Jasper," the detective announced. "She arrived from New York yesterday on the Megantic."

The lady was small, dark, inclined to be a little sallow, but with beautiful eyes and an exceedingly vivacious manner.

"I'm very glad to meet you. Sir Jasper," she said, "and I hope you'll try to persuade Ned to do as I want him to do."

"You're on your way to dinner, I can see," the detective remarked, with a glance at Slane's attire. "Sit down for a minute and take a cocktail with us. Waiter, one dry Martini."

Slane accepted the invitation willingly. There was a change in Cross. He was looking a little tired, and he had the air of a man who has passed sleepless nights.

"No luck yet?" Slane asked.

The other shook his head. The woman became almost vehement.

"What luck do you suppose there ever could be," she demanded, "sitting about waiting to be plugged by a tough like Josh Chandler? When I learned Ned had come over here after him, just when he'd made up his mind to retire and take me through France and Italy, I just bought a steamer ticket, got on the Limited, and here I am. Ned's done good work for twenty years. He could take his pension tomorrow. I'm taking him right away."

Slane looked at Cross.

"Have you met with any luck at all?" he asked.

"I can't say as I have," Cross acknowledged, "but I've got ideas, and that's what I'm not often plagued with. I've got ideas all the time that Josh is there, at my elbow—just around the corner—coming round the corner. I'm not a nervous man, but I don't mind confessing that I go round the room with a gun before I get into bed, and I'm on the eighth story of the hotel."

"There's nothing more trying," Slane remarked consolingly, "than sitting about waiting for a man."

"Well, he's not going to do that any longer," the woman announced with decision.

"It's Paris for us Monday, and I'm cabling myself to Chicago to say that Ned's resigned. He's got five more days here, and those are five days too many."

"I can't persuade you to come down to Scotland Yard then before you chuck this job?" Slane asked.

"I don't feel like it," Cross admitted. "I'll tell you what, though, if you'll bring your friend—I forget his name— to dinner next Sunday, I'll hand over all the stuff I've got about Josh. It may come in handy for him."

"I'll bring Stimpson with pleasure," Slane promised, rising to his feet. "Good-by, if I don't see you again until then. And I think you're right on the whole, Mrs. Cross," he added, as he shook hands.

The lady smiled.

"You're awfully nice. Sir Jasper," she declared, "and if you've got a wife or a young lady you'd like to bring round on Sunday—well, bring her. Eight o'clock's the hour."

"I shan't forget," Slane promised.

* * * * *

Stimpson was a little thoughtful as he drove to the Milan on Sunday night.

"I'll be interested to meet your friend. Sir Jasper," he said. "They think a lot of him in Chicago."

"He's rather an impressive man in his way," Slane observed. "Got a bit nervy since his wife came. I saw them both in the grill-room at the Milan last night, and he wasn't looking the man he was the first night I saw him at the Globe."

Stimpson's blue eyes were fixed upon vacancy.

"It's a wearing job," he remarked, "being on the heels of a fellow like Josh Chandler. He kills for the joy of it, and a fellow like that gets out of almost anything."

Slane lit a cigarette.

"You look a little peaky yourself, Stimpson," he observed. "They told me you were having a vacation when I rang up."

"I've finished with that," Stimpson replied, "and since I've been back, I've had a couple of days strenuous enough for anyone. By-the-by, Sir Jasper," he added, as they turned in at the courtyard of the Milan, "there was a rumor this afternoon at the Yard that this fellow Chandler had reached this side after all and that he's been seen in London. Mind you, I'm not talking about it yet, and I've nothing for your friend Cross. If he asks any questions, leave it to me."

"Jealous devils, you professionals!" Slane murmured.

"I don't think," Stimpson confided, "that I shall even mention the subject. I have a sort of fancy for taking Chandler myself, without any interference from Chicago. . . ."

The hall porter at the Milan Court welcomed them smilingly.

"You'll find Mr. Cross up on the eighth floor, sir," he announced.

"Are we to go up, or is he coming down?" Slane inquired.

"I believe you are dining in his private apartment, sir," the man replied.

The two men entered the lift and were whisked upward. A waiter met them on the eighth floor, and ushered them into a large, flower-decorated salon. A round table for four was set in the middle of the room, by the side of which were several bottles in ice pails. A cocktail shaker of unusual dimensions stood upon the sideboard. The atmosphere of the place was festive. Almost as they entered. Cross sallied out from an inner room.

"So this is Inspector Stimpson," he observed, holding out his hand. "Glad to meet you, sir. We've heard of you, of course, in Chicago."

"I have heard of you, also, Mr. Cross," was the courteous reply. "I have heard of several fine pieces of work on your part, too. I wish I could congratulate you upon your success over here."

A momentary shadow darkened the American's face.

"I'm through," he confided. "My time is up. My pension's due, and whoever wants to go after Josh Chandler is welcome to the job. I'm for staying alive a year or two more myself."

Mrs. Cross came smiling in, a dazzling vision of black tulle, slender legs and languishing eyes.

"I am disappointed," she exclaimed, as she held out her hands. "I wanted to dine downstairs and see if either of you can dance. Mr. Stimpson, I'm glad to know you. I've got a bully husband but he's just given in to me on the big things, so I guess he thinks he can do as he likes about this, but if you boys are real sports you'll say something about a little supper party afterward. I haven't had a dance since I left Chicago, and Ned's getting more nervous and stupid every day. Now I'm going to shake you some cocktails. They'll be good, I can promise you."

She kept her word. The cocktails were cunningly mixed, and shaken with a practiced hand. The dinner that followed, watched over by one of the principal head waiters from the restaurant, was excellent and well chosen. The wine was of an old vintage. By degrees Cross began to lose his anxious look. His wife's eyes grew brighter, her laughter freer, the invitation of her lips as she looked across the table more insidious. She flirted indiscriminately with Slane and Stimpson, but she raised her glass more often to her husband.

"He's a dear," she declared. "He's given up his wild goose chase. We're leaving for Paris tomorrow."

Her husband set his glass down. The dinner had reached its final stage. The coffee, according to directions, was steaming upon the sideboard where the liqueurs were also arranged.

"But before I leave," Detective Cross announced, with that peculiar quality in his strained eyes which Slane had first noticed, "I must take you all into my confidence. I have news for you two gentlemen."

His lips curled inward in the travesty of a smile. The glitter in his eyes became more pronounced. He lit his cigar with meticulous care and, rising to his feet, walked toward the door which led into the corridor, and listened for a moment. Satisfied, apparently, he turned the key and shot the bolt. Then he walked softly to the door from which he and his wife had issued—the door leading to the sleeping apartments. This one, too, he locked. Afterward he moved to the window, and looked downward. They were on the top story, and below was nothing but a pool of darkness.

"Sir Jasper," he said, resuming his seat at the table, "and you,, my new friend—although well known to me by name—Mr. Stimpson, this is my news. I have found Josh Chandler."

"The devil!" Slane murmured.

"Congratulations!" Stimpson echoed.

"I have done what no other man in the world could have done," Detective Gross continued. "Chandler, mark you, with seventeen murders, eight bank robberies, three or four abductions, and God knows how many other crimes up against him. I have him safe under lock and key."

Slane set down his cigar which he had just lit. The moments seemed electric. Stimpson was staring out of his wide-set blue eyes. The woman was leaning back in her chair.

"Here in London?" Slane gasped. "Where is he?"

Cross tapped his chest.

"Here, at your service, gentlemen," he announced. "I am Josh Chandler."

Neither Slane nor Stimpson seemed capable of speech. The woman laughed. She leaned still farther back in her chair, her arms hanging over its sides, and she laughed, showing her beautiful white teeth, her eyes alight with a sort of fiendish joy.

"Wonderful, Josh!" she cried. "Wonderful! Now, what's going to happen to you two boobs?"

"In the first place," the man who had been Cross said, his hand disappearing for a second and reappearing with a short-barrelled, little automatic. "In the first place, hands up, you two, whilst I see if either of you has a gun."

Up went Stimpson's hands; Slane, after a moment's hesitation, followed suit.

"Not in my line," Stimpson declared. "I never carry a gun. You probably know that, if you are Chandler. Nor does Slane when he comes to a private dinner party. I'll answer for that."

"Frisk them, Leda," Chandler muttered. With a cigarette drooping from the corner of her lips, she rose to her feet, and felt their pockets, first Stimpson's, then Slane's.

"Not a sign of one," she announced. "Poor lambs!"

"Now, I'm taking a risk with you fellows," Chandler went on. "I'll admit it's a risk, but I've thought out my plans pretty carefully. This room is one of the best in the hotel. Everyone who comes here sits upon the window sill to look down and see the view over the Thames. You're going to sit there, both of you, and you are going down to look at the Thames from the ground. How does that appeal to you?"

"Not at all," Slane declared.

"Heights always make me giddy," Stimpson objected. "I'm not going near the window."

"My last really big crime!" Chandler pronounced, with a boastful smile. "I have several grudges against you, Stimpson. You'd go anyway. I wasn't so sure about Slane, but what happens to one of you must happen to both. I see we have disposed of three bottles of wine, and I shall pour a couple more out of the window. Staggering over there is dangerous, you know, but a bullet in your forehead isn't any pleasanter—"

"I think I'd rather be shot," Stimpson decided. "What about it, Slane?"

Slane prepared to face death.

"Whatever you say, Stimpson," he agreed.

They looked into the dark ugly barrel of the automatic. Mockingly, Chandler stepped back a yard.

"Don't be fools!" he scoffed. "You're dead men in a second if you move."

Stimpson dipped his fingers in the bowl, wiped them with his napkin, and came round the table.

"I'm not so sure," he said.

"Oh, to hell with you both!" Chandler snarled. "I'm sick of you. If you won't go out of the window, you'll go my way."

His face was white and ghastly in the shaded light—the face of a homicidal maniac—the murderer through sheer lust of blood. His hand flashed out.

There was a spit of fire. Stimpson remained upright, blinking a little. Another spit of fire—a third—and a fourth—and suddenly the long reverberation of a whistle which Stimpson had drawn from his pocket. Chandler glared at them both, pale with fury, dumb with sheer amazement.

"Quite useless," Stimpson snapped out. "My dear Chandler, we may be lambs—"

The woman sprang up with a cry. From some place of concealment in her garments, flashed out another glittering little weapon. The same result! And then a curious thing happened. The doors, locked and bolted, slowly opened upon the hinges. There filed into the room a procession of men, stern-faced and capable, slowly filling up the background of the apartment.

"They overrated you in Chicago, Chandler," Stimpson said calmly. "We knew all about poor Cross. He never reached the steamer. He was murdered that night in New York. You haven't been a free man since the day you crossed the portals of this hotel, if only you had known it. My men took the places of every servant upon this floor. You have nothing but dud ammunition, and we've had the hinges of your door ready to lift at any time. We just waited. You know what we waited for."

But if Josh Chandler knew, he never told. He was at the window, mocking, triumphant.

"An American visitor to London," he chuckled. "Too much champagne. That d——d prohibition!"

"Shoot him through the leg," Stimpson shouted.

Too late. Chandler was crashing through the window, and Slane, in whose memory the horror of those few moments lingered for long, fancied that in his last seconds his hands were outstretched toward the woman whose wrists were being firmly held by one of the newly arrived myrmidons of the law.

"I couldn't help it, Sir Jasper," Stimpson apologized, "I had to make use of you, although I had in my pocket the cable from New York telling me of the murder and of Chandler's escape to Europe. I knew what had happened, and I had to finish it so that no one was hurt except Chandler. I made use of you, I know, but we had to wait for the woman. You were seeing so much more of the man than I was, and a monosyllable would have given the show away."

Slane indulged in a little grimace, but he laid his hand forgivingly upon the other's shoulder.

"Anyhow, I am glad I was in at the death!"</story>