<story title="THE THIRTEENTH CARD" date="1929">
A LITTLE company of men, among whom was Jasper Slane, trooped out from the dining-room of the Lavender Club and approached the broad staircase which led to the bridge rooms. The hall porter, who had been speaking on the telephone, hurried over to them.

"Sir Jasper," he announced, "you are wanted on the telephone, sir."

Slane paused dubiously. Telephone calls at that hour of the evening were inopportune.

"Do you know who it is?" he asked.

"He didn't mention his name, sir," the man replied, "but I fancy that it was Lord Minchingham's voice. He said that it was an urgent matter."

"Put me in the table, and I'll play the next rubber," Slane begged his companions, with a little sigh of regret. "I don't know what the devil Minchingham wants with me at this time of the night." He entered the telephone compartment, and picked up the receiver.

"That you, Minchingham?" he inquired.

"Wizard!" was the brief response. "I say, Slane, are you doing anything very particular?"

"Well, I was just going to play bridge."

"So were we, but fate seems to have intervened. What I want to know is whether you can come round here, number 6A, Cunningham Mansions, you know."

"Do you mean at once, or later on?" Slane queried with a certain lack of enthusiasm in his tone.

"I mean this minute. Come in the quickest taxi you can find. Something has happened which we don't quite understand. I think you could help us. Awfully sorry, and all that, but—"

"I will come," Slane promised.

He hung up the receiver, sent a regretful message upstairs, put on his hat and coat, found a taxi, and drove to Cunningham Mansions. The building itself, in which the flat was situated, was a comparatively small one. The ground floor was taken up by shops on each side, the first floor by offices, the second floor by a residential flat, and the third by Lord Minchingham's small but famous bachelor suite.

There was a slight air of disturbance, Slane noticed, in the entrance hall. The commissionaire was looking annoyed, and the elevator man distrait. Slane, however, asked no questions, stepped into the elevator, ascended to the third floor, was relieved of his coat and hat by Minchingham's perfect butler, and ushered at once into the library. Minchingham, pale, with a high forehead and languid eyes, slim, debonair, but extremely lethargic, not from mannerism but from real disposition, rose to meet him. He had been seated at a card table, at which were two other men. The third place was vacant.

"Very good of you to come, Jasper," Minchingham said, as he shook hands. "You know these fellows, I think."

Slane nodded, and exchanged greetings with the other two men. One was Goring Brett, who held a permanent post in the Foreign Office; the other was Sir Martin Phipps, a member of Parliament, chairman of many companies, and a well-known figure in the world of finance. Even from the moment of his entrance, there seemed to Slane to be something curious about that third and empty place.

"What are you doing? Playing cutthroat?" he asked.

"We are half afraid there is someone else who is doing that," Minchingham replied, in his high-pitched, bored tone. "We sat down to play a rubber of bridge three quarters of an hour ago —we three and Cartwright. You know Ronny Cartwright, of course?"

"Yes, I know Ronny," Slane admitted. "The cards had just been dealt, when Thomson, my butler, came in and announced that someone wanted to speak on the telephone to Cartwright. He apologized and hurried away, carrying his cards, and sorting them as he left the room. The telephone is in the little hall smoking-room outside, as I dare say you know. I am telling you all this rather carefully because we have so little to go on, and any trifle might give you an idea."

"Quite right."

"Well, we waited a minute or two," Minchingham continued, his drawl becoming more pronounced. "We waited five minutes. We waited nearly ten. Then these fellows began to get the fidgets, and I went out. Cartwright's cards were on the small table by the side of the telephone instrument. The front door was open, but he himself had vanished. I rang for Thomson. Thomson knew nothing. I looked round the flat—no sign of Cartwright anywhere. I went downstairs to the commissionaire. The commissionaire had been in his little office for the last three quarters of an hour, and was sure that not a soul had entered or left the building. The long and the short of it is, Slane—it's a damned silly thing to say—but Ronny Cartwright has disappeared."

"Well, he can't have got very far," Slane observed, with a smile.

"That should make the task simpler," Minchingham rejoined, "but all we ask is, find him for us. You know the geography of the place. The ground floor is all let out in shops which have been closed up for at least three hours. The floor above consists of offices, and they have been empty since seven o'clock. The floor above them and immediately under us is occupied by Princess Varnava, a very wealthy Russian-Polish lady who keeps us in touch with the haute monde inasmuch as even Buckingham Palace calls to see her. We two are the only tenants."

"Does Cartwright know the princess?" Slane inquired.

"I am quite sure he doesn't, because only last time he was here he asked, curiously enough who occupied the other flat. Rather got his eye on it for himself, I think, if there had been any chance of the lease falling in. . . . Now, what about it, my friend Jasper? There's the ground floor, with its shops, and the first floor with locked doors, empty; my flat, which you can turn inside out, if you like; the Princess Varnava's, who, as I told you, is thoroughly well-known, leads a very quiet life, and never goes out in the evening. I ask you, where is Ronny Cartwright?"

"WE'LL get to work in a moment," Jasper Slane, who was becoming more and more intrigued, declared. "I hope you won't mind if I try a very short reconstruction."

He subsided into Cartwright's vacant place, helped himself to a cigarette, rose as though to obey a summons from Thomson, or from someone entering the room, and strolled out to the little hall where the telephone was placed. Upon the table by its side were the playing cards, which presumably Cartwright had laid down. He looked them over carefully. They were divided into suits, but there was something unfamiliar about them when spread out in his hand. He realized in a moment what it was. There were only twelve cards. He looked under the table, and upon the carpet—no sign of any other. He laid them down once more, and took the receiver from the telephone.

"Hullo!" he called out.

There was no reply. He tried again and again, pressed the hook down time after time. There was still no reply. He summoned Thomson.

"Thomson, is this the telephone that rang when you fetched Mr. Cartwright?" he inquired.

"Certainly, sir," the man replied. "There is no other in the flat, except an extension to this one which rings into his lordship's bedroom."

"Do you mind," Slane asked, "seeing whether the extension is in order?"

"Certainly, Sir Jasper."

The man went out and reappeared a few minutes later.

"I cannot get any connection, sir," he confided. "It seems as though we were cut off somewhere."

Slane nodded.

"Your telephone has been tampered with," he announced. "I can't think how his lordship got through to me."

"His lordship spoke from the hall. Sir Jasper," Thomson explained. "He was downstairs questioning the commissionaire."

"You are sure that Mr. Cartwright spoke up here?"

"Quite sure, Sir Jasper. I heard his voice distinctly."

"You couldn't hear what he said?"

"I didn't listen, sir," was the somewhat reproachful rejoinder.

"That's all right," Slane persisted. "but this is rather a serious affair. His lordship tells me that Mr. Cartwright has disappeared. We want to find him. If we could discover whom he was talking with, that might help."

"I am sorry, sir, but I really didn't hear a word."

"Did Mr. Cartwright seem disturbed at all?"

"I couldn't answer for that either, Sir Jasper. I was busy clearing away in the dining-room. I only know that I heard Mr. Cartwright's voice speaking, and about two minutes afterwards, when I came through the hall, there was no one there, and his cards were upon the table."

"What about his coat and hat?"

"They are both here, sir, and if I might venture to point out something, he certainly wouldn't attempt to leave the building without them. It's a cold night, and snowing hard."

"Good," Slane murmured. "Mr. Cartwright is still in the building. Ergo, if we search the building we will find him. . . .

"Well, what about it?" Minchingham asked as Slane reentered the room.

"You are right," the latter acknowledged. "Ronny Cartwright has disappeared, apparently, in the full, dramatic sense of the word. His hat and coat are ill the hall, his cards are still upon the little table, and your telephone has been cut."

They all glanced at one another uncomfortably.

"Look here," Goring Brett observed, "miracles don't happen nowadays. There must be some quite ordinary explanation of this."

"There most probably is," Slane agreed. "Let's set to work to discover it. I suggest, Minchingham, that you three search your own flat thoroughly. Whilst you do that, I'll go and have a word with the commissionaire, and tackle the princess afterwards if necessary."

"That goes," Minchingham assented. "Come along, you fellows."

The commissionaire proved to be a person whom it was impossible to suspect of either inattention to his duties or conspiracy in any shape or form. He was a tall, burly fellow, an ex-non-commissioned officer in the Guards with a formidable row of medals, and a convincing alertness of manner. He declared with emphasis and without reserve that since the entrance of the three bridge guests, no stranger of any sort whatever had arrived at or left the flats. The elevator man was equally certain that he had not been summoned since he had taken the three gentlemen up to the card party, nor had he left his post, except to bring Lord Minchingham down to question the commissionaire. Accompanied by the latter, Slane mounted to the first floor and examined the entrance to each of the various offices. There were no lights burning in any one of them, and the fastening of every lock was secure. Slane descended to the ground floor again with the commissionaire.

"What sort of people are these tenants?" Slane asked. "Respectable lot, eh?"

"They wouldn't be here if they weren't, sir," the man replied confidently. "There's Mr. Hubble, the lawyer. He's got the best suite. I saw him leave early this evening. His articled clerk wasn't long after him, and his two other clerkS and office boy were gone by six o'clock. Then there's a Mr. Simpson— an American film agent. He's been here three years. Him and his young lady typist, they left together somewhere about seven. Then there's another lawyer, a Mr. Swayles, and Mr. Michael— he's a kind of collector of rare furs and Oriental bric-à-brac. There wasn't one of them, sir, who didn't have to produce pretty good references before he got a foothold here."

"I see," Slane murmured. "Then the only two residential flats are Lord Minchingham's and the one below. Now tell me about the tenants there."

"It's a widowed lady, sir," the commissionaire confided, his tone and manner becoming deeply respectful. "She is some sort of princess, I believe, though only Russian. She very seldom goes out, but there's a-many comes to see her. Very kindly, generous lady, sir, and the best tenant these flats have ever had. We gets all sorts of nobility here now and then calling on her."

"What does the household consist of?" Slane inquired.

"There's a companion—a young lady —her private maid, two women servants and three menservants."

"She's not like most of the Russians, poor, then?"

The sergeant smiled in almost pitying fashion.

"Not she," he declared. "I should say she's got all she wanted."

"Well, I'm very much obliged to you for your information," Slane said, slipping a pound note into his hand. "What you have told me is certainly helpful."

The man looked at the pound note.

"It's too much, this, sir, just for answering a few questions," he remonstrated.

"You shall earn it then," Slane told him, "by answering just one more question. You have one of the new telephone home exchanges here, I see. Very useful things, they are, for small flats. Now, can you tell me why the wire entering Lord Minchingham's number in the case there is cut? There you are, you see—two inches above the stand."

The commissionaire swung round to face the instrument. He stared at the severed cord.

"God bless my soul!" he exclaimed. "It was all right last time I looked that way. I'll swear it was."

"Who else beside Lord Minchingham has been down in the hall?" Slane asked.

The commissionaire's face was a study in bewilderment. He could scarcely take his eyes off the cut cord.

"Why, no one out of the usual, sir. Just me and William, the elevator man. There was the princess' maid went out with the two little dogs, same as she does every now and then. One of the menservants came down to smoke a cigarette, and waited for her out in the street. I can't remember another soul, sir. Certainly, there's no one from outside has entered this building, and no one has left it that hasn't come back."

"Very well," Slane said, "we'll leave it at that. Now tell me. You look like a man of common sense. Where should you think this gentleman, Mr. Cartwright, could have got to?"

"Throwed himself out of one of the windows, I should think, sir," the man replied. "I can't think of any other Way he could have disappeared without passing out of the front door. The only thing that seems to me possible is that he may have been a friend of the princess'. The telephone call may have been from her. He may have .slipped down there, and been taken ill, or something of that sort."

"You will be here for at least an hour, won't you?"

"I'll be here to let you out, whatever time you come down," the man declared vigorously.

Slane took the lift to Minchingham's apartments. Thee three men were there, waiting eagerly for his coming.

"We have searched every corner of the place," Minchingham announced. "Whatever has become of Cartwright, he isn't here. Have you had any luck?"

"None at all," Slane replied. "The princess is our last hope. I am going there now. . . ."

* * * * *

ONCE or twice lately Slane had asked himself, half in derision, whether by continually focusing his mind upon certain subjects he had not become psychic. Certain it was that, after having left Minchingham's flat and commenced the descent of those few stairs which lay between him and his destination, he had a feeling that he was moving toward the solution of this baffling mystery. He paused before the dark mahogany door, and rang the bell. A grave and irreproachably-dressed manservant answered his summons immediately.

"Is the princess at home?" Slane inquired.

The man was obviously surprised.

"Her Highness is at home," he admitted, "but she does not, as a rule, receive. Have you an appointment, sir?"

Slane shook his head.

"MINE is quite unexpected business," he confided. "Please take my card to her, and ask her if she will give me a very brief interview."

The man accepted the card, and disappeared. There was the sound of surprised feminine voices from the room which he had entered. He returned, however, without undue delay.

"Will you come this way, sir," he invited.

He ushered Slane at once into a delightfully comfortable though rather overheated lounge sitting-room. An aristocratic-looking lady, with white hair brushed back from her forehead, dark eyes, dressed simply in black but wearing some very beautiful jewelry, looked across at him curiously. Close to her chair, a young girl also in black, with heavy features, dark, strongly marked eyebrows and narrow eyes, was seated with a book in her hand, apparently interrupted in the task of reading aloud.

"Princess," Sir Jasper said, as the door closed, "I must apologize profoundly for intruding upon you at such an hour. May I explain my errand?"

"By all means," the princess acquiesced, in a voice which, notwithstanding its foreign accent, was very sweet and mellow. "Will you please to sit down?" she added, waving him to a chair. "This is my companion, whose presence you will not mind. Let me hear, please, what it is that you want from me at this strange hour of the evening."

"It is something which will sound to you, I am sure, absurd," Slane confessed, "so I shall first of all tell you of the predicament we are in. My friend who lives in the flat above, Lord Minchingham, had three other men to play bridge with him tonight. Some hour and a half ago—it may be two hours—they were in the act of sitting down to their game when one of the party—a Mr. Cartwright—was summoned to the telephone. He left the room. He did not return. In due course, Lord Minchingham went out to look for him. He had disappeared.

"That, Princess, was an hour and a half ago at least, and both the commissionaire and the elevator man are ready to swear that he has not left the building."

"This is very mysterious," the princess murmured, with the air of one sufficiently intrigued.

"It is almost amazing," Slane agreed. "Cartwright has not left this building. Very well—where can he be? We have explored thoroughly every inch of Lord Minchingham's flat. The offices which occupy the floor below you are every one of them locked, and to the best of the commissionaire's belief their tenants left at the usual time four or five hours ago. You see. Princess, that leaves us in the whole of this building only your apartments. I am going to ask you the great favor to be allowed, in company with one of your servants, to search your flat."

The princess' forehead was wrinkled in surprise.

"But Sir Jasper," she exclaimed, "this is incredible! I do not even know this Mr.—what did you call him?—Cartwright? Why should you imagine that he might by any possibility be in my apartment?"

"Princess," Slane pointed out, "the suggestion seems as incredible to us as to you. Please try to realize our point of view. A man cannot dissolve into thin air, and it has been demonstrated that this gentleman must be in this building, every part of which, except your apartment, has been thoroughly explored. No other situation would have induced me to make a suggestion which I know quite well must sound unreasonable."

The princess glanced at his card.

"I seem to know your name, Sir , Jasper," she mused. "You write, perhaps?"

"Very seldom. A few articles on crime from various angles. I know quite well the Countess Montzini, who is, I believe, a friend of yours."

"Dear Olga!" the princess murmured. "Of course she is. Well, have your own way, Sir Jasper. Ring the bell, Anna. We will hand this gentleman over to Grubling."

"I am exceedingly obliged to you," Slane acknowledged, rising, "and so, I am sure, Lord Minchingham will be. I promise that I will be as little obtrusive as possible."

The princess smiled at him.

"You will find my small apartment of scant interest to you, I fear," she observed. "Search it thoroughly, however, and come and see me before you leave. Sir Jasper." . . .

Grubling, duly summoned, proved to be the usual type of taciturn but perfectly well-trained servant, and was evidently of either German or Russian nationality. He was not the man who had admitted Slane, but appeared to be a sort of major-domo. The princess explained what was required. His stolid features showed no surprise.

"If the gentleman will follow me," he begged, with a stiff bow.

Under his guidance, Slane proceeded to make a careful inspection of the whole flat. The princess' bedroom and boudoir were, as one might have expected, miracles of daintiness combined with a certain sad splendor. Surely, they bore no trace of any masculine visit. The apartment of Mademoiselle Anna was as bare as a domestic's—an iron bedstead, spread, however, with fine linen, an iron cross on the wall opposite, and one beautiful picture of the Virgin. An unused sleeping apartment was stored with a number of priceless pieces of furniture and objets d'art. Cupboards in various places, which Grubling unlocked, were filled with glass and rare china. The servants' quarters were ordinary, but Slane explored them inch by inch even to the telephone closet.

"There remains nothing else, sir," the man announced at last, respectfully. "You have been in every room, and seen every cupboard."

Slane pressed a pound note into his hand. The man accepted the note and opened once more the door of the salon.

"Well," the princess mocked good-humoredly, "you did not find your friend concealed by chance in my bed, or lurking in my wardrobe?"

"My friend does not seem to have had the good fortune to have found his way here at all," Slane confessed. "It only remains for me to ask your pardon for this intrusion, and to thank you most gratefully."

She held up her fingers and he was sufficiently versed in foreign customs to stoop and brush them with his lips. The girl's face, as she bade him good night, was expressionless.

"Come and see me again some day, Sir Jasper," the princess invited. "You must at least come and tell me all about your missing friend and where you found him."

"If you will allow me, I will certainly feel that I owe you that courtesy," Slane replied.

He was on his way to the door, more bewildered than ever. And then, for a moment, he hesitated, and a little thrill stole through his pulse. Upon a round mahogany table stood a great bowl of lilies, and in the shadow of the bowl there was something crumpled up, barely recognizable, which brought the light shooting into his eyes.

He paused, stooped down to smell the flowers, and his fingers closed upon a very unconsidered trifle—something just out of sight of the princess and her companion. Grubling was holding the door open. Mademoiselle Anna had picked up her book, ready to recommence the reading. The princess was leaning back in her chair, daintily smoking a cigarette as Slane, with a farewell bow, passed out.

They were all three waiting for him impatiently when he reentered the library of the flat above. The cards were still upon the table.

"Well?" Minchingham inquired. "Any luck?"

"I don't know. Let me think for a moment. Count your cards, you fellows."

They came to the table, amazed at this strange request, but did as they were bidden, and reported thirteen each. Slane took up Cartwright's cards, which he had brought back from the hall, and let them fall through his fingers, one by one. From his trousers' pocket he produced a crumpled-up playing card with the same back.

"Thirteen," he murmured, letting it drop on the top of the others.

They all stared at him.

"What the devil are you driving at?" Minchingham demanded, taking up the battered card.

"One second," Slane begged, "let's be certain of this. The card you have there, Minchingham, is the two of spades. Has anyone else the two of spades?"

"Not in my hand," Minchingham declared.

"Nor mine," Martin Phipps echoed.

"Nor mine," from Goring Brett.

Slane glanced through Cartwright's hand.

"There is no other two of spades," he announced. "This card, therefore, belongs to Cartwright's hand. He left twelve outside upon the table. When he was called or fetched away, he took this one with him. I found it downstairs in the apartment of the Princess Varnava."

There was a brief period of stupefied silence.

"What the devil did the fellow mean by going down there without a word to us?" Minchingham finally demanded.

"Is he there now?" Martin Phipps asked.

"He is not there now," Slane assured them. "I have explored every inch of the princess' apartments. He is not there. Yet that card which was in Cartwright's hand when he left this room, was in the salon."

"Couldn't have jumped out of a window, could he?" Goring Brett suggested hesitatingly.

"Cartwright is a level-headed fellow," Slane pointed out. "He would hardly indulge in a jump of sixty feet or so on to some spiked railings without some serious object. Nevertheless, I fancy that our next move must be to the street."

"Have you any theory at all?" Minchingham demanded, as they made their way toward the lift.

"Only the ghost of a one," was the frank avowal. . . .

"Any news, sir?" the elevator man inquired, throwing open the gates.

"None at present."

"Has the gentleman turned up, sir?" the commissionaire asked eagerly, as he rose to receive them.

"No sign of hint yet. Don't leave your place there. We're only going just outside."

They stood on the edge of the pavement. It was still a miserable night, but the driving snow had ceased. Slane backed a little into the street, and looked up. On the ground floor were the large plate glass windows of the Hanover Models Limited, above, four dark windows belonging to various offices. Then the windows of the princess' flat, through the drawn curtains of which shone a faint streak of light. Slane called to the commissionaire, and pointed upward.

"Those streaks of light there," ho asked, "belong, I imagine, to the apartment of the princess?"

"That is so, sir," the man agreed. "Now, whose offices are those below?"

"A gentleman named Michael, kind of an agent for furs and Oriental things."

"What sort of a man is he?"

The commissionaire was dubious.

"One of them foreigners, sir," he confided. "Stout fellow, with a beard and kind of a foreign way of dressing. Keeps two clerks there, and a typist."

Slane's interest in the windows seemed to have abated. He crossed the pavement toward the main entrance of the flats.

"Upstairs for a minute," he begged. "Sergeant, we shall be back again directly. Let no one pass out."

"I'll see to that, sir," the man promised.

They shot up to the third floor. As soon as the door of the library was closed behind them, Slane turned to his host.

"Minchingham," he demanded, "have you a weapon of any sort, and an electric torch?"

"I've got one revolver," was the somewhat dazed reply. "Plenty of electric torches. What in God's name?"

"Just a minute or two, there's a good fellow," Slane interrupted. "I may be making an absolute ass of myself, but give me a chance."

Minchingham ransacked a cupboard, and discovered a revolver which he handed to Slane, together with a torch.

"Come along down, you fellows, if you like," the latter invited. "I'm going to listen outside the premises of Mr. Michael. If there's no one there, there's nothing doing."

No one was willing to be left behind. They crept downstairs on tiptoe, found the brass plate indicating the offices of Messrs. Michael & Son, and grouped themselves round the door. There was no light to be seen inside, nor was there at first any sort of sound to be heard. A few breathless moments passed. Then Slane, who had been on his hands and knees on the floor, rose silently to his feet. There was a gleam in his eyes, and a new tenseness in his manner. He beckoned to the others to follow him, and they descended to the hall. The sergeant was still at his post, and the lift man was seated in his chair.

"Sergeant," Slane confided, "there is something wrong upstairs. Take this gun whilst I telephone Scotland Yard."

He crossed toward the telephone, and suddenly the elevator bell rang!

There was a moment's curious silence, broken by Slane, with a quick imperative question.

"Who'd be going out at this time of night, Sergeant?"

"I can't imagine, sir," the man acknowledged.

The attendant banged the iron doors to, and glided up. With only a few seconds' delay the lift reappeared. Out stepped Mademoiselle Anna, in a thick coat, carrying an umbrella, and with a small Pekingese under her arm. She made her way toward the door, but Slane blocked her progress.

"Sorry, mademoiselle," he apologized, "but do you think your little dog could dispense with his exercise tonight? He has already been out, hasn't he?"

She looked at him with flashing eyes.

"He goes out several times every night," she replied. "We are late because you upset the princess. He must certainly go as far as the corner."

She would have pushed her way past him, but Slane did not move.

"Mademoiselle," he said gravely, "the dog, after all, is not a vital affair. An order has been given that no one should leave this place until a certain matter has been cleared up."

Her eyes were filled with wicked anger.

"Who is there to give such an order?" she demanded, making another effort to pass.

Slane held her by the shoulder.

"Mademoiselle," he insisted, "you will not be permitted to reach the street. You will not be permitted to return even from whence you came. Sergeant, take care of this young lady for a few moments. I will hold you blameless in case there is any trouble."

She opened her mouth to shriek, but the commissionaire's hand was upon her lips. Slane stepped past her to the office telephone.

"Give me 1111-Y," he begged. "Quickly, please. It's a police call. . . . That Scotland Yard? . . . Sir Jasper Slane speaking. I don't suppose that by any chance Inspector Stimpson is in? . . . Ask him if he can speak with me. . . . Sent for a taxi, has he? Never mind. Tell him I have urgent business for him. He had better bring three or four men, and come himself to Cunningham Mansions. I'll be waiting for him in the hall. Ask him to make it as quickly as possible."

He rang off. The girl was still struggling.

"Look here," Slane remonstrated, "you'll do yourself no good going on like this. The game's up, whatever it was. Where's Mr. Cartwright?"

"What do I know about Mr. Cartwright?" she fumed.

Slane shrugged his shoulders, and turned away. She looked at him with the hatred of a wild animal. A tense quarter of an hour ensued. Then a motor car, followed by a taxi, drew up outside. Stimpson, accompanied by four constables, hastened in. Words flashed back and forth without prelude.

"Michael & Son?" Stimpson repeated eagerly. "We've had information about them during the last few days. First floor, did you say?"

"Give the inspector your pass-key. Sergeant," Slane begged. "You can let the young woman go now, if you like."

There was no longer any attempt at concealment. They turned on the lights in the corridor as they reached the first floor. Stimpson glanced around.

"I'd keep these gentlemen out of it if I were you, sir," he advised, turning to Slane. "If you've stumbled up against the crowd I think you have, they're likely to show fight."

No one took any notice, and the sergeant, producing his pass-key, opened up the premises of Messrs. Michael & Son. Entering, the little party of men found themselves in a sort of showroom, with glass cases on stands down the center, and a few rare furs hanging on the walls. A touch of the switch and the room was flooded with light. At the same moment, from the transom of the office beyond, a light flashed out and disappeared.

"Send two of your men back to the hall, Stimpson," Slane begged. "There's a trapdoor from the apartment above down to the office here. They may try to get up that 'way, and down the stairs."

Stimpson gave swift orders, and afterwards they pressed forward. The office door was locked, but once more the sergeant's pass-key was successful. Stimpson thrust his gun through the opening, and followed it cautiously. The room was empty except for one man seated in a chair, to which he was closely bound. Dangling from the ceiling was a beautifully made rope ladder.

"Good for you, Jasper, old chap!" Cartwright, who was partially gagged, croaked: "Cut these cords, someone."

The thing was done in a moment Cartwright pointed to the rope ladder.

"Quick, some of you fellows," he enjoined. "There's a trapdoor there to the princess' kitchen. It was that butler of hers who got me. He's just gone up with Michael. Quick, or they'll get down the stairs!"

Slane smiled reassuringly.

"Their welcome's waiting for them in the hall right enough," he promised. "Don't you worry, Cartwright."

"What the devil do you mean by breaking up a rubber like that?" Minchingham demanded.

Cartwright grinned feebly.

"What the devil do you mean by living over a gang of Bolshies?" he muttered. "Lead me to a whisky-and-soda."

* * * * *

ON THE following evening, Jasper Slane was the honored guest at the house of a cabinet minister. Certain matters were there explained to him.

"I should find it difficult," his host declared pompously, "to express to you, Sir Jasper, how deeply indebted the government of this country feels toward you for your services of last night. I will frankly admit that all our own men were on the wrong track. We knew of the existence of this gang—the infinite mischief they were doing—but we never associated the Princess Varnava with anything of the sort. It seems now that she escaped from Russia and saved her fortune by espousing Bolshevist doctrines. By degrees, it appears, so far as I can learn, she actually adopted them honestly and with a certain amount of conviction. Anyhow, she has been furnishing the Soviet people here and in Moscow with amazing information week after week. This last affair —Cartwright has explained that, I suppose?"

"Not thoroughly," Slane admitted.

"Well, there's a steamer coming up the Channel now with a million pounds' worth of Soviet gold on board," the cabinet minister confided. "The Soviet envoy here was beside himself to find out what the Cabinet had decided about seizing it. Cartwright was practically the only man, outside the Cabinet, who knew. He's been followed for days. They got him last night by a most transparent trick."

"Rang me up at Minchingham's," Cartwright intervened from the other side of the table "and gave me the Foreign Office password for 'Wanted immediately.' I recognized the password, which has never yet failed, and did just as I was told—descended by the stairs to speak to a messenger who was waiting in the princess' flat. I just remember hearing the butler behind me whilst I was bowing over her fingers, and the next thing I knew I was in that office below. I sat there with a gun pushed into my ribs for at least an hour, and they were just planning a little further amusement for me, I think, when you fellows came along." Cartwright paused. Then—?

"Tell me," he begged, "how did you tumble to the fact that I was or had been, in the princess' flat?"

"The two of spades—your thirteenth card," Slane confided.</story>