<story title="THE TENANT OF THE LIGHTHOUSE" date="1923">
COLONEL SIR FRANCIS WORTON, K.C.B., D.S.O., sometimes known as Q20—the abbreviated designation of the Home Secret Service Department, which he had so successfully inaugurated—stretched himself out in Daniel Rocke's easy-chair and broached a subject which, to a man possessed of less self-confidence, might have presented embarrassments. But Worton, good fellow though he was universally admitted to be, was always a little pompous.

"Daniel," he confided, "I admire your secretary immensely."

"The devil you do!" Daniel replied, startled for a moment out of his habitual nonchalance.

"I like her manners," Sir Francis continued, "I like her appearance, I like her taste in clothes, and I adore the way she does her hair."

"Am I to understand, as you are making me the recipient of these confidences," Daniel enquired, taking off his glasses and wiping them, "that you are contemplating asking me for her hand in marriage?"

"Don't be an ass!" was the prompt rejoinder. "In the first place, if I wanted to marry her, I should ask her, and not you. And in the second place, I am, as you know, a confirmed old bachelor. I was thinking of inviting her to lunch."

"Why not? Windergate was less punctilious. He used to take her out without asking me."

Sir Francis was visibly annoyed. Windergate had been his subordinate for many years, and there appeared to be something unseemly in the situation.

"Does he want to marry her?" he enquired.

"I should say he probably does," Daniel acknowledged.

His chief made a little grimace.

"Well, he's a good-looking fellow—fair income and all the rest of it. Why doesn't she marry him?"

Daniel stretched out his hand towards the bell.

"Shall we have her in and ask her?" he suggested.

"Don't be an ass!"

Daniel relaxed a little. His chief's annoyance at his subordinate's enterprise had appealed to his sense of humour.

"As a matter of fact," he confided, "I don't think Windergate or anybody else will have much of a look in just yet. I remember telling you her history. She is the daughter of the first man whom Londe did away with—the first we know of, that is to say. She doesn't think much of any of us for not having brought him to book before this. It was because she thought she had a chance of taking a hand in the game that she left the F.O. and came here to me."

Sir Francis nodded.

"I am not sure that I blame her for being a little disappointed," he observed maliciously. "You've had that fellow cornered two or three times, and allowed him to get away. Windergate never ought to have let him slip through his fingers when he had him run to earth in that house on Salisbury Plain. Not your fault, of course. You're not a detective. You're supposed to use your brains in the matter and leave the executive part to the proper department. Windergate appears to have behaved like a village bumpkin."

"You have never been up against a lunatic, have you?" Daniel enquired.

"A lunatic," Sir Francis repeated. "That ought to make it all the easier."

"You obviously haven't studied the finer lights of criminology," Daniel remarked drily. "A clever man, who is mad on one point, and one only, is the most dangerous person in the world to tackle. I'd back the subtlety of his brain in all matters except the one, against yours or mine."

"I should certainly accept the challenge," Sir Francis declared, with a smile which only just escaped being patronising.

"You can accept it whenever you like," was the calm reply. "Londe is wanted, as you know, for several murders, and also by the lunacy commissioners. He is staying, at the present moment, at the Magnificent Hotel at Shoreborough!"

There was a brief pause. Worton failed to grasp the situation.

"What the devil do you mean?" he demanded.

"Precisely what I have said."

"But if you know that he is there, why aren't you doing something about it?"

It was Daniel's turn to smile ironically.

"We did something about it each time before," he reminded his chief, "and somehow or other we didn't quite get our hands upon Londe. This time we must alter our tactics a little. We must go more warily. I am convinced that he is at the Magnificent 'from information received,' as Windergate would put it. But the most certain thing on earth is that if either Miss Lancaster, Windergate or I were to put in an appearance there, he'd be off before we had even looked in the visitors' book."

"How did you come by your information?" Sir Francis not unnaturally enquired.

"Windergate, of course, is shrewd enough so far as he goes," Daniel admitted. "He discovered some time ago that Londe will have the Lancet every week and will have it sent to him direct. He's been on the wrong track once or twice in hunting down mysterious subscribers. This time, however, I rather think the finger points the right way. The Lancet is being sent to the Magnificent to a Doctor Benson. No such person is known there under that name, yet the paper is always claimed."

"The assumption being, I suppose—"

"That some one enters the office at a moment when there is no one about and takes the paper out of the rack," Daniel interrupted. "The conclusion one must arrive at is that the pseudo-Doctor Benson is either almost a resident at the hotel or some one connected with it."

"Can't you have the place watched by a local detective—a stranger to Londe?" Sir Francis suggested.

"We had that done last week," Daniel replied, a little wearily. "The Lancet disappeared just the same."

Sir Francis held out his hand.

"Pass me the A.B.C.," he begged. "It is time I took a hand in the game."

"If you are successful," Daniel observed, "there will be no trouble about that luncheon so far as Miss Lancaster is concerned."

Sir Francis made not the slightest secret of his visit to the Magnificent at Shoreborough. He booked his rooms under his own name, went to great pains to procure the window table he desired, made an absurd fuss about an imaginary game leg, walked always with a stick, sat outside all the morning reading the papers, talked to every one in the lounge about the wonderful air, and played bridge in the afternoons at one of the clubs. His plans were well made and no one would have surmised that his valet was an experienced detective, and that he had in his sitting room a copy of the dossiers of each guest who had stayed in the hotel during the last month. At the end of three days he was prepared to scoff at the idea of Londe's being, or having been at any recent period, a visitor there. On the psychological day, however, the Thursday, when the Lancet was delivered, there was a dramatic change in the situation. The copy of the paper was surreptitiously removed from the pigeon-hole in which it had been placed, notwithstanding the vigilance of three or four people, and the waiter, a young Frenchman, who had served Sir Francis, was picked up at the bottom of the cliffs, a mile or so out of the town, with a broken neck and sundry very suspicious wounds in the back of his head. Sir Francis paid a brief visit to the police station, asked for his bill, and telephoned to Daniel.

"I am coming up to town for an hour, by the eleven-forty," he announced. "You had better arrange to come back with me. Windergate is on his way down and I want to bring another man I know of."

"I will be ready," Daniel promised. "Pity you seem to have let the fellow slip through your fingers."

"Eleven-forty," Sir Francis repeated. "I'll come straight round to see you after I have called for a moment at my rooms."

Sir Francis, however, neither called upon Daniel that day nor returned to his rooms, and within twenty-four hours every newspaper in London was announcing in prominent headlines:


MYSTERIOUS DISAPPEARANCE OF A WELL-KNOWN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL.
Worton spent the first of those feverish days following his disappearance in pain, discomfort, and fear. He had a blurred but more or less connected recollection of his taxicab having been stopped in a block of vehicles at the entrance to the station; of a man putting his head in at the open window as though to ask a question; of a faint odour, followed by an amazing paralysis of mind and body. He did as he was told weakly and tremblingly. Assisted by his guide he stepped out of the vehicle, entered the station, passed across the bridge to the arrival platform, left the station again, entered a closed motor-car and was driven rapidly away. His guide had taken the seat by the chauffeur, and he found himself next to a woman who, even in those blurred minutes, he seemed to realise, was beautiful. He found strength to ask her a faltering question. She smiled, patted his hand, and made an evasive but encouraging reply. He had the feeling that he must have been taken ill and was slowly recovering consciousness.—Presently the car left the road for a narrow lane. They bumped their way across a field with the sea in full view, and stopped before what appeared to be a lighthouse—a white-plastered, round building. A lighthouse! The whole thing was too ridiculous. There followed a period of further oblivion.

When once more he recovered consciousness he was lying on a plain hard mattress in a small circular room, with white-washed walls and ceiling, and with the only window high up and far out of reach from his recumbent position. His first impressions were that he really had met with an accident and was in hospital. Looking down at him, critically, was a keen-faced man of powerful appearance. His clothes were covered by a long white duster. By his side stood the woman who had ridden with him from the station.

"Where am I?" Worton gasped. "What has happened?"

"You are in good hands," was the calm reply. "Lie still."

The tenant of the lighthouse stooped down and felt the prostrate man's pulse. Then he turned to the woman.

"Most annoying," he declared. "An absolutely perfect subject."

Then the whole truth came like a swaying flood of horror to the man who lay there powerless. These two could be no others than Londe, the lunatic butcher-surgeon, with his lunatic wife—the murderer of Miss Lancaster's father, of the travellers on Salisbury Plain, without doubt, too, of the waiter whose body had been picked up at the bottom of this very range of cliffs. He was in their power. This rude apartment was to be their operating chamber. He felt himself in the clutches of chill fear.

"Where the devil am I, and what do you want with me?" he gasped.

"I will explain," the other replied courteously. "I am Sir Joseph Londe, the Australian surgeon, of whom you must have heard. I saved thousands of lives in the war—I, and the lady here, who was my head nurse and who is now my wife. Unfortunately, although I am a strong man, the strain was too great for me. I went mad."

"Mad!" Sir Francis muttered mechanically.

"Precisely. One little corner of my brain alone is affected—a matter of discolouration. I need a small transfusion of what is vulgarly called 'grey matter'—the very smallest quantity you can imagine. Yet, believe me, my dear sir, I find it almost an impossible thing to find a brain which will afford me just what I want."

Sir Francis prayed for strength, prayed that, after his life of bravery, he might not end it a coward. The weariness was still in his limbs.

"Why have you chosen me for a subject?" he demanded.

"Because you are a clever man," was the prompt reply, "and I should say a remarkably sane one. Also because you and your friend Rocke are becoming a little troublesome to me. I nearly had a look at Rocke's brain once, but a girl stepped in. It was a pity."

"You know that this is murder?" Worton muttered, dimly aware all the time of the futility of his question.

"That is a most ignorant and absurd remark," Londe retorted, with some signs of anger. "I have saved thousands of lives. Surely I have a right to one or two when it is a question of restoring one of the greatest intellects in the surgical world. All that I require is a man's brain free from any red patch. I have great hopes of yours."

Sir Francis was slowly recovering his courage.

"My brain," he declared, "is covered with red patches."

"I don't believe it," was the firm rejoinder. "You are not the sort of man to have a discoloured brain—Judith! Can you see anything yet?"

The woman, who had been standing at the window, turned away.

"Nothing," she answered.

Londe's face was black with momentary anger. He looked down apologetically at his prospective victim.

"You resent this delay without a doubt," he observed. "So do I. The fact is, there has been such a fuss in the newspapers and amongst the police about a recent subject of mine upon whom I experimented a few days ago, that my wife thought it as well to conceal my surgical instruments for a short time. I have sent for them, however, and they ought to be here at any moment."

"Will you tell me," Sir Francis asked, "what that accursed stuff is that you used upon me at the station? It seems to have taken all my strength away."

Londe smiled complacently.

"The use of that stuff, as you call it," he declared, "will, in due course, be proclaimed as the greatest scientific discovery of the war era. I am leaving the formula to the College of Surgeons, when I have finished with it. With a single whiff I can make a baby of the strongest man—he has no will and very little strength. With a double whiff it becomes a perfect and marvellous anaesthetic. When operating on you, for instance, you will feel nothing—two whiffs and then eternity."

"Most consoling," Worton muttered.

Londe joined his wife for a moment at the window. Then he turned away towards the door.

"I have some indifferent implements in an old case," he confided. "I will examine them. Make yourself comfortable, Sir Francis, until my return. Judith!"

He left the room and the woman turned slowly away from the window. She came to the side of the couch and looked down at her husband's prisoner meditatively. Notwithstanding a certain air of anxiety, she was a very beautiful and a very attractive woman. Sir Francis tried to keep the horror from his eyes. She was after all a human being. There must be a weak spot somewhere.

"You can't mean to stand by and see your husband commit murder," he pleaded.

She seemed puzzled.

"I have stood by while he has done his work a hundred times," she replied. "Many died. They did not call it murder then."

"But that was when they would have died anyhow, if the operation had not succeeded," he reminded her. "I am not wounded. What have I done that he should help himself to my life?"

"He gave his reason and mind for your countrymen," she pointed out. "It is only fair that one of them should repay him. But wait."

She held up her finger and listened for a moment. On the floor below they could hear Londe's restless movements. She leaned towards the helpless man.

"I will show you something," she whispered.

She crossed the room and lifted up a pile of sacking which lay in the corner. Underneath was a long black case, on which was a silver shield.

"What is that?" he demanded.

She raised the lid, took something out from the case, and turned towards him with a smile. She held out a short but deadly-looking knife. A ray of fugitive sunshine fell upon its blue, highly-tempered blade.

"The case of surgical instruments," she confided. "He thinks I sent them away. I didn't. I hid them here."

A gleam of hope restored Sir Francis's courage. Perhaps, after all, then, this woman was human.

"Put it back quickly," he begged. "Your husband might come in."

She obeyed him and replaced the matting with elaborate carelessness.

"You do not wish me to be butchered, then?" he asked eagerly.

The slightest of frowns disturbed the serenity of her beautiful countenance.

"It is not that," she explained. "I think that my husband has the right to do whatever he chooses in order to regain his reason, but there is always such a fuss afterwards."

"A fuss," he repeated weakly.

She nodded.

"Yes. Every one is against us. Every one objects. We have to go into hiding and it is so uncomfortable. I hate living in strange places and wandering about like shadows. I want a house in the country with a garden where there are a great many rose trees. I want to take care of them like children, to spray them and prune them and talk to them every morning. Some day the blossoms will come. Then I shall christen them all separately. I shall know them all by name. That will be wonderful."

Worton felt his strength slowly returning. He sat up on the couch.

"Of course you realise that you too are mad?" he asked bluntly.

As the words left his lips he knew that he had made a stupid and unpardonable mistake. Her beautiful mouth parted into ugly lines, her eyes shot fire, her silken eyebrows became one long menacing line. It was significant that her tone was not raised.

"You have insulted me," she declared. "You will be sorry\"

She looked towards the door. He rose to his feet unsteadily but with rapidly growing strength.

"Forgive me," he begged. "I can't imagine what I was thinking about to say such a thing. That infernal drug took away my wits as well as my strength."

She paused irresolutely and looked at him. Notwithstanding his dishevelled appearance he was a very good-looking man.

"You call me mad," she said, lowering her voice a little and holding the latch of the door in her hand; "yet it is you who are a fool. You seem to want your life, yet you insult me—me, who could give it to you. You do not plead with me; you do not try soft words. I let a man go free once for the sake of a kiss that pleased me. Joseph was very angry—but he never knew about the kiss."

Worton made an effort.

"You are very beautiful," he sighed; "but I am a drugged man.—If you look at me like that I shall not care whether you give me my life or not, so long as I have the kiss."

She laughed and the anger passed from her face. She turned towards him.

"For one moment," she murmured, "I will see how it seems to feel your arms around me. If it pleases me—you shall live."

Something helped him—a touch of man's passion for the unusual, perhaps. He held her in his arms and their lips met. A moment later she drew away, gracefully and with reluctance. Her cheeks were flushed. She laughed at him kindly.

"I will do my best," she promised. "You shall live."

Almost immediately they heard Londe's footsteps upon the stairs. He came in, bearing an open case in his hand. He laid it down upon a chair.

"I fear that I shall have to apologise for my apparent clumsiness," he said, turning towards his prisoner with a knife in his hands. "These are very inferior affairs. Fortunately, however, you will not realise the difference."

Worton stepped backwards. He saw the black tube protruding from the other's waistcoat pocket and the fingers stealing towards it.

"Why not wait for the others," he suggested.

Londe shook his head.

"I have waited all day," he replied. "I shall wait no longer. They are making such a terrible fuss about you in the papers, too. It is time we were away."

The woman laid her hand upon his arm.

"You are absurd," she remonstrated. "Don't you realise that when this man's body is found, a report will be made on the wounds in his head by an English doctor—an English doctor, mind. Do you want to lose your great reputation. You shall not! I forbid it!"

He hesitated for a moment. Then he threw down the knife gloomily.

"I wish to heaven I had never let you send the other case away," he muttered.

He walked up and down the room furiously, his hands in his pockets, pausing every now and then to look impatiently out of the window. He drew nearer and nearer to the pile of matting. The other two watched him with fascinated eyes. The sight of the untidy heap seemed to irritate him. Impatiently he gave it a savage kick. The case was disclosed. He threw himself upon it with the cry of a wild animal. Then he turned around, holding it under his arm. He moved a step nearer to the man and woman who watched him. One hand already held the black tube. The fingers of the other were stealing towards the fastening of the case.

Telephone, telegraph and 60-h.p. Rolls-Royce worked together for the life of Sir Francis Worton, K.C.B., D.S.O. Daniel Rocke, Windergate, Captain Milton, the Chief Constable of the County, and the manager of the Hotel Magnificent, met together in conference in the latter's office, within a few hours of the time when Worton's disappearance had become an established fact.

"The taxicab driver?" was Daniel's first question, after they had settled down to concrete discussion.

"A most respectable man, owning his own cab," the Chief Constable declared. "He has had an unblemished licence for seventeen years, first as a cab, and now as a taxicab driver. Ask him all the questions you like from an informative point of view, but don't waste time with him. All that he knows is that his fare was spoken to, apparently by an acquaintance, whom he cannot describe, at the entrance to the station; that he must have descended without his noticing the fact; and that he never saw him again."

"We will accept that," Daniel decided. "Now with regard to the station officials?"

"They have been thoroughly rounded up," the other assured him, "but very little information has been gained. It was a busy time, and all we have been able to gather is that the two men probably left the station by the south entrance and entered a car on the other side. We are doing our best to trace all the cars present that evening."

"Too slow for us these methods, although they, of course, are necessary," Daniel admitted. "We must begin at the other end. About this young waiter who was murdered? When is the inquest?"

"To-morrow," Captain Milton replied.

"Is there any unusual evidence to be offered?"

The Chief Constable nodded.

"In a way there is," he assented. "The young man had evidently come into possession of money lately. He appears to have bought a bicycle and a good many new clothes. He took a ride most afternoons."

"Always in the same direction?" Daniel asked eagerly.

"Precisely. The direction of West Shoreborough."

"Can we have the head waiter in?"

That functionary was summoned. The Chief Constable coughed.

"You will excuse my pointing out, Mr. Rocke," he ventured, "that it is the disappearance of Sir Francis Worton which we are investigating."

Daniel nodded.

"We are going backwards for reasons I will explain to you presently," he replied. "I am only interested in saving my Chief's life, and there isn't any time to spare. The murderer of that young man is also the abductor of Sir Francis."

The head waiter made his appearance. Daniel asked him questions with almost lightning-like rapidity.

"How many tables had William Morton, the young waiter who was murdered, to look after?"

"Eight, sir. In the very busy season, nine."

"Can you remember any occupant of any of the tables looked after by him, who seemed to take a special interest in the young man?"

The waiter reflected.

"There was a middle-aged gentleman staying here—I think he must have been a doctor—who used to give him extra tips and talk to him a great deal. He had an invalid wife who never left her sitting room. This was some weeks ago, though."

"Name, please, and why did you think he was a doctor?" Daniel asked, drawing on his coat.

"The gentleman's name was Fox, sir, and I thought he might be a doctor because he read the Lancet a good deal."

Daniel waved him away.

"Which house agent does the most business on the western outskirts of the town?" he asked the Chief Constable abruptly.

"Fellows & Company," was the wondering reply. "They have a branch office just outside."

"Quick as you can, please, gentlemen," Daniel begged, leading the way from the room. "We're overdue at that branch office!"

The final scene possessed a little drama of its own. As they bumped across the rough road down to the lighthouse, recently let on lease to a Mr. and Mrs. Fox, they saw a wild-looking figure stagger from the doorway and make his way to the edge of the cliff. He had on neither coat, waistcoat, nor collar; his hair was unkempt, his footsteps unsteady. They tumbled out of the car and rushed towards him.

"Thank God, you're safe!" Daniel exclaimed. "Where's Londe? Where are they?"

Sir Francis pointed downwards with trembling forefinger. On the sands, hundreds of feet below, a woman was standing, looking up. Behind her, a few yards from land, a powerfully built petrol launch was moving slowly about, and, in mid-air, already halfway down, a man was descending a thin rope ladder. Daniel's eyes flashed as he pointed to him.

"There's the man you want, sir," he cried fiercely. "There's the man who murdered that young waiter and—"

"And by God he nearly had me!" Sir Francis interrupted.

Captain Milton smiled as he looked over the cliff.

"A clever idea, this escape, I suppose," he remarked indulgently, "although a trifle melodramatic—more suited for a cinema stunt than real life. They can go off in that launch in whatever direction they like and as far as their petrol will take them, but they can no more escape now than if the handcuffs were already upon their wrists. Every coastguard station, harbour master and lighthouse keeper within a hundred miles will have their description within half an hour. Take the car and start work, Stedman," he directed, turning to the inspector who had accompanied him. "Mr. Windergate had better go with you. You can send something back for us."

The man saluted and hurried off. Suddenly a dust-covered figure sprang from a station taxicab and staggered towards them. It was Ann, breathless and white with excitement.

"Where is he?" she demanded.

Daniel took her by the arm and pointed over the edge of the cliff. Londe was nearly halfway down now and descending with incredible rapidity.

"Why do you stand here and do nothing?" she cried furiously. "Do you want him to escape?"

The Chief Constable remained unperturbed.

"The handcuffs are as good as upon his wrists," he assured her.

Ann gave one glance at Daniel and pointed towards the steel hooks of the ladder, which had been secured to the remains of a wooden bench. Daniel nodded and took a quick step forward.

"You may be right," he muttered, "but I've seen that man escape when the odds were a hundred to one against him. Why take any risks?"

The Chief Constable frowned. Officially, he felt bound to assert himself.

"That's murder," he protested.

"Is it?" was Daniel's vicious comment as he flung himself on the ground. "If I had met him face to face I should have put a bullet through him, without waiting for questions. As it is—we'll try a hundred-foot drop on to the shingle."

"And God bless you for it!" Ann sobbed.

Daniel wrenched away the grappling irons and the ladder collapsed. They leaned over the edge of the cliff. Londe seemed for a moment to fall backwards, making desperate efforts to clutch at the scrub and fragments of rock jutting out from the face of the cliff. Then he turned a complete somersault in the air and went hurtling through space. They could almost hear the thud with which he fell. He lay spread-eagled upon the pebbles, motionless and still.

"Good work," Daniel declared savagely. "Let's get down and look at him. There's a pathway a little further along."

It was one of the few wild moments of Daniel Rocke's admirably controlled life. He felt a soft, warm hand in his. Ann's face was aflame with exultation. Her eyes adored him. Then a wondering cry from Milton and an oath from Sir Francis brought them once more to the edge of the cliff. They looked down. No one seemed able to find any words.—Londe was on his feet. He was walking towards the boat, walking slowly, but without unsteadiness. By his side was the woman, moving across the sands with slim and effortless grace. A thick-set man, with a south-wester pulled over his forehead, held out his hand from the boat and she sprang in with the light buoyancy of a girl. Londe walked calmly through the waves and followed her over the side. Already the engine was at work. They were making for the open sea. Man and woman stood together, looking up at the cliff top. Their expressions were undistinguishable. They made no gesture or movement. Then the woman turned and entered the cabin. The boat still headed oceanwards, travelling at an amazing pace. Londe moved to the prow and remained there, dark and sombre, his back turned towards the land, his face to the horizon. He was like Columbus, with a still undiscovered world before him.

"An eighty-foot drop," Daniel muttered, "and he fell on his back!"

The Chief Constable looked downwards superciliously. He was still entirely self-assured.

"He probably has internal injuries," he remarked. "In any case I have given orders that they are to be brought back to Shoreborough."</story>