<story title="A YOUNG MAN'S KISS" date="1923">
"THE boy who made that fire was a fool," Daniel Rocke grumbled, as he divested himself of his coat and muffler. "First warm day for a long time, and the silly young ass builds a furnace that would roast an ox."

Miss Ann Lancaster looked up from her task of arranging a little pile of letters upon the desk. She was carrying a newspaper in her hand.

"I made the fire," she confessed. "I am so sorry if it doesn't please you. I thought it was rather a good fire," she added, glancing at it reflectively.

"Too big—much too big," her employer grunted.

"You've complained that the room seemed damp to you in the mornings, the last few days," she reminded him. "I thought you'd better have a good fire and then open the window."

"I should catch my death of cold with the window open at the back of my neck," he objected.

She closed the discussion with a little toss of the head.

"I am sorry," she said impenitently. "Do you mind looking at this newspaper? There seems to be rather a curious disappearance reported. I will wait while you read it, if I may."

Daniel pointed to a chair and nodded. Then he bent over the newspaper and read the paragraph which she had marked.


MYSTERIOUS DISAPPEARANCE OF A SOMERSETSHIRE GENTLEMAN
A most extraordinary case of disappearance in which the aid of Scotland Yard has been invoked by the local police is reported from South Fawley, a small village on the boundaries of Somerset and Devon. It appears that at about five o'clock on Thursday afternoon, Mr. Gerald Oakes, of South Fawley Hall, left home with the intention of shooting a few rabbits in the confines of the Park. He was seen to leave the gun-room, cross a paddock, and enter a small wood through which a footpath leads to the village. Two shots were heard, and a recently killed rabbit was subsequently picked up in the wood. At seven o'clock, as Mr. Oakes had not returned, one of the gamekeepers went to look for him. Later on a search party was instituted and the further woods and all possible places where an accident could have occurred were thoroughly explored, but without result. The local police have come to the end of their resources, and a representative from Scotland Yard is now upon the spot. Mr. Oakes has only lately succeeded to the property and is a young man of considerable wealth and a well-known athlete. He is of cheerful disposition, exceedingly popular, and there is not the slightest cause to suspect that he is in trouble of any sort. Only a few minutes before leaving the house, he instructed his butler to telephone to some neighbours, asking them to dine that evening. Loss of memory seems to be the only possible explanation of his absence, but how he could have disappeared on the verge of the village where he was born and bred is entirely inexplicable.

Daniel finished the paragraph and leaned back in his chair. He took off his spectacles and polished them. Ann came over and stood by his side.

"Not much use to us, I am afraid," she remarked.

"On the face of it, no," he admitted.

She waited patiently, as she had learnt to do. There was a reserve in his manner which indicated reflection.

"I fear," he continued at last, a little irritably, "that I am losing my memory—breaking up all round, in fact. I have seen the name of that village, South Fawley, somewhere, within the last twenty-four hours."

"Probably in connection with this affair," she suggested.

"No," he snapped.

"Yesterday," she reflected, "you had Professor Moon in to see you. You left early for lunch to keep an appointment with Sir Francis at Whitehall House. You were late back—you must have called at one of the second-hand bookshops, for you were carrying that volume of De Quincey you showed me—"

"Stop," he interrupted. "You have solved the mystery. It was an address label in the bookshop. I saw it on the top of a pile of volumes. Put on your hat, Miss Lancaster, at once."

She obeyed promptly.

"Do you wish me to go anywhere?" she enquired.

"I wish you to accompany me," he directed.

They left the office together, walked up Shaftesbury Avenue to the Charing Cross Road, and entered the bookshop at the corner. A little pile of volumes stood in front of one of the shelves, covered by a sheet of brown paper. The addressed label was still there. They both bent over it.


The Rev. Gordon Maseley, The Vicarage, South Fawley, SOMERSET.

"A clergyman," Ann exclaimed, some disappointment in her tone. "The vicar of the place, I suppose."

"Let us see what his taste in books is, anyhow," Daniel remarked.

He lifted the edge of the brown paper, glanced, carelessly at first and then eagerly, at the little row of volumes. He stood transfixed. The manager of the shop strolled over to him.

"Queer hobby for a clergy-man, Mr. Rocke," the latter observed. "This Mr. Maseley sent me thirty pounds and gave me a list of standard modern works on lunacy he wished sent down to him. I am just waiting for Hobson's 'Diseases of the Brain' to send the parcel off. I expect it to-day."

"Is this gentleman, Mr. Maseley, an old customer?" Daniel enquired, turning over one of the volumes.

"I never heard of him before," the manager admitted. "I dare say he has bought books in the shop. He must have done, I should say, or he couldn't have known that the collection of any sort of medical or scientific books is rather a hobby of mine. Does he happen to be a friend of yours, sir?"

"I could tell if I saw his handwriting," Daniel replied. "Have you his original letter?"

"I am not sure, sir."

The man made his way to the office and reappeared a moment or two later, with a sheet of notepaper in his hand.

"Nothing doing," he announced. "The order came typewritten on a sheet of the vicarage note-paper, and in the third person—'The Rev. Maseley,' etc. I should think these country clergymen in quiet places would sometimes go nearly out of their minds without a hobby."

Daniel nodded, a little grimly.

"The 'Rev. Maseley's' hobby," he remarked, "appears to be rather an unusual one."

Ann could scarcely wait until they got back to the office, although Daniel's silence was significant.

"Well?" she demanded, looking round eagerly as soon as she had removed her hat.

"The matter is worth investigating," Daniel pronounced. "Especially—" he hesitated. There were one or two points in the dossier of the man whom they sought which he had kept to himself.

"Go on, please," she begged, as she hung up her hat and followed him into his office. "Don't keep me waiting."

"Especially as, before he practised surgery he was on the stage for several months, and afterwards appears to have taken orders," Daniel concluded. "He certainly filled a curacy in Melbourne for some short time."

Pale, as one who had passed through a long illness and still lingers between life and death, Gerald Oakes, for whom the police of Somerset and the myrmidons of Scotland Yard were scouring the country, lay on a pallet bed within a few hundred yards of his home, in a long, bare apartment, built as an annexe to the vicarage by a former incumbent of South Fawley, who was more remarkable for his large family than either his parish work or his eloquence in the pulpit. By his side stood Londe, in clerical riding suit of grey. He had just returned from visiting a parishioner at a distant farmhouse, and was now engaged in feeling the young man's pulse.

"Quite satisfactory," he pronounced, after a moment's silence. "I must congratulate you, my young friend. You have a marvellous constitution. You are one of my least troublesome subjects."

"Exactly what does that mean?" the young man enquired weakly.

"It means that you have a constitution like a piece of machinery," Londe explained. "I know exactly by your symptoms how much of my treatment you require to keep you in a certain state of quiescence."

"Blast your treatment!" Gerald Oakes muttered.

Londe smiled.

"It is very unreasonable of you to be annoyed," he protested. "You must give and take in this world."

The young man stared at him wearily for a moment.

"Are you a madman?" he asked at last. "I suppose you must be, although I can't see how you are able to escape detection in the church and amongst all these country people, if you really are. You seemed all right the night you dined at the Hall. Yet you must be mad. No sane man murders without a motive."

"Not mad," Londe denied earnestly, "although, alas! I must plead guilty to one slight weakness. Except for that, I think I can safely say that I am one of the cleverest men in this country."

"One slight weakness," the young man repeated wonderingly.

"Precisely," Londe assented. "A weakness which, with your help and the help of some books I am expecting to-morrow, I hope to be able to cure permanently. I have tried before, but each time I have failed. I have come to the conclusion that there is one slight detail where I make a mistake."

"Detail! My help!" Gerald Oakes muttered. "What the hell use am I, lying here—to anybody? If I could but raise my arm—"

He lifted it feebly. Londe smiled.

"Yes," he said, "I expect you would be dangerous but for the treatment, although even at my age, I believe that I am a stronger man than you. You would like a couple of glasses of port, wouldn't you, or a pint of champagne?"

"I'd like to get you by the throat and strangle the life out of you," was the shuddering reply.

"You are unreasonable," Londe assured him earnestly. "Many a man who caught a young fellow like you kissing his wife would have been far more violent than I have been."

Gerald Oakes moved in his place uneasily.

"It was an impulse," he muttered. "I don't know what came over me."

"Your vicar's wife," Londe went on sternly. "And, according to your story, the first time you had ever spoken to her, except at your own dining table."

"I shouldn't have spoken to her at all," the young man explained, "but she was frightened at the report of my gun. I didn't see her coming, and I shot a rabbit in the path. Afterwards I walked home with her—she asked me in—while we were in the drawing-room—"

"Precisely," Londe interrupted sarcastically. "Spare me the harrowing details. Then you looked up, and there was I in the doorway."

"Damn you, yes!"

Londe smiled.

"I might have killed you at once," he observed. "As a matter of fact, I am not going to kill you at all."

"If ever I get out of here alive," the young man began earnestly

"Now, don't threaten," the other interrupted. "Can't you see for yourself how foolish that is? Besides, you are really an exceedingly fortunate young man. A few months ago, or even a few months later, I should probably have attempted an experiment on you which would have involved the loss of your life. As it is—well, you will be shooting rabbits again in an evening or so. Let me see."

Londe glanced at his watch and picked up his hat.

"It is time I paid my afternoon call upon your mother," he announced. "You will be glad to know that I go to the Hall every day to talk to her, and keep her cheerful. She is bearing up wonderfully, considering—wonderfully. She has made one mistake, however, which has annoyed me very much. She has called in help from Scotland Yard. Such a reflection upon the police of the district!"

"I wish you'd go," Gerald Oakes murmured peevishly. "I hate the sound of your voice."

"What manners!" Londe sighed. "Your host, too! Well, I shall tear myself away for a little time. I'm going to the Hall now. To-morrow, in all probability, you may be there yourself."

The young man turned on his side and looked curiously at Londe who stood on the threshold, his broad clerical hat in one hand, and his riding-whip in the other.

"If I am there, what do you suppose I shall do about you?" he demanded.

Londe smiled.

"I suppose I shall have to take my chance," he admitted. "You will not be too severe, I trust. Remember—that you had your kiss!"

The young man lay on his couch and watched the sombrely clad figure swing down the garden path. He was terrified at the confusion of thought into which he had fallen. He could not remember how long he had lain in this hateful apartment, how long since he had eaten or drank. Everything seemed unsteady and obscure since the one dramatic moment when he had drawn away from the lips of that strange, bewildering woman, thrilled, yet filled with an instinctive apprehension, and had looked up to find her husband standing in the doorway. It had all seemed so natural. Londe's attitude was one of pained and dignified surprise. The young man had felt heartily ashamed of himself. He had begun to stammer out his faltering apologies to the grave, advancing figure. Then he had imagined that he was going to be shot. There was something black in Londe's suddenly outstretched hand—a faint jet of vapour, a giving way of heart and senses, a strange, stupefying falling away of consciousness. He only remembered two cold grey eyes watching him through a strange mist.

The door was quietly opened. The woman came in. Notwithstanding his weakness, the young man's heart began to beat more quickly. She made a little gesture of silence and came towards him—a superbly graceful figure, with what seemed to be a compassionate light in her beautiful eyes.

"I am so sorry," she whispered.

"For God's sake tell me if your husband is mad?" he begged. "What is he doing with me? I seem half-dazed all the time. I can't even remember how long I have been here."

"Hush!" she replied soothingly. "No, he is not mad. He is much angrier than he seems. He is very jealous."

She smiled at him, but there was none of the gallant left in Gerald Oakes.

"Can't you help me to get out of here?" he pleaded.

She was thoughtful for a moment.

"You need a little more strength," she decided. "Could you drink a glass of wine?"

"Rather!" he assured her eagerly.

She looked out of the window for a moment. Londe was making his way across the Park. Then she left the room and returned almost immediately with a wine glass filled with port.

"Drink this quickly," she invited. "It may give you strength enough to stand up."

He took the glass and drank its contents. For a moment a new life seemed to throb in his pulses, and then blankness swept over him. He threw up his arms.

"Oh, my God!" he sobbed. "The clouds are coming again."

He fell back. The woman leaned over him, smoothing his hair, her fingers resting upon his cheeks. His eyes closed, his breathing became regular, although his colour was ghastly. Apparently he slept.

To Ann, already attired for the journey, the paragraph in the midday edition which she had just bought, was a great disappointment. Nevertheless she took the newspaper into Daniel's room and showed it to him.

"I think you ought to see this before we start, Mr. Rocke," she said, with a sigh of regret. "I suppose it's no use going now."

Daniel took the paper from her hand. There was a great headline over the paragraph to which she pointed.


END OF THE SOUTH FAWLEY MYSTERY
MR. GERALD OAKES DISCOVERED IN WOOD WHERE HE DISAPPEARED
Mr. Gerald Oakes was discovered early this morning by one of his gamekeepers, seated with his back to a tree, and fast asleep, within a few yards of the spot from which he disappeared some days ago. His gun was by his side and, although a little exhausted, his health appears to be unimpaired. He is unable, however, to offer any explanation as to his absence from home, and subsequent adventures. He cannot even remember how he found his way back to the scene of his disappearance. The incident is the more surprising inasmuch as there is no hiding-place of any sort in the wood, and the whole neighbourhood for miles around had been scoured for days by the police.

Later.
Our special correspondent, on calling at South Fawley Hall, learns that Mr, Oakes, although in excellent health, is quite unable to account for his disappearance, and was only persuaded with difficulty that four days had elapsed since he had left home. His last conscious recollection is of shooting a rabbit crossing the path, after which he remembers nothing until he was awakened by the gamekeeper four days later.

Daniel Rocke laid down the paper.

"A sell, after all, then," he observed.

"I am afraid so," Ann sighed, thinking regretfully of that long drive into the perfumed Somersetshire lanes. "Shall I send the car away?"

Daniel appeared to be immersed in a brown study. When she repeated her question, however, he shook his head.

"A day or two in the country will do us no harm," he decided. "Besides, I am still a little curious about that clergyman who makes a study of lunacy.—Have you got the letter from Sir Francis?"

"It came a few minutes ago," Ann told him.

"Then we'll start."

The butler at South Fawley Hall looked doubtfully at the card and letter which Daniel handed to him on the following afternoon.

"Mr. Oakes is seeing no one, sir," he announced.

"Give him the letter, please," Daniel begged.

"You are not connected with the Press, sir?"

"Not in any way."

The butler took the letter and returned almost immediately. A few minutes later, Daniel and Ann were shown into the library and were shaking hands with the hero of the South Fawley mystery. To them he appeared a tall, good-looking young man, with a pleasant expression, at the present moment completely spoilt by a nervous twist of the lips and an uneasy light which shone every now and then in his eyes.

"Sir Francis is an old friend of my father's," he said, as he motioned them to chairs. "Naturally, I cannot send you away. At the same time, I don't understand your position exactly. You're not a detective, are you—or the young lady?"

Daniel shook his head.

"I am really a Foreign Office expert on ciphers," he confided, "and the young lady is my secretary. When Sir Francis was appointed to his present position, he offered me a post under him, which I have filled for a short time, but only with one object."

"Kind of Home Secret Service business, isn't it?" the young man enquired listlessly.

"Something of that sort," Daniel acknowledged. "My own interest in it, however, is simply concerned with the pursuit of one man, a dangerous criminal, who is also a lunatic. I was very nearly one of his victims myself."

"I am afraid if you are connecting him in any way with my little affair, you'll be disappointed," Gerald Oakes remarked. "I may as well tell you at once that I have not been robbed of a penny directly or indirectly."

"The man of whom I am in search does not commit his crimes for financial reasons," Daniel declared. "However, I do not wish to take up your time. I want to ask you one question. Can you tell me anything about your vicar, the Rev. Gordon Maseley?"

"What, old Maseley?" the other exclaimed in some surprise. "He's all right. Bit bookish for a country parson, but he's really one of the best when you get to know him."

Daniel felt the shadow of disappointment resting once more upon him. Nevertheless he persisted.

"How long has he been here?" he enquired.

"Somewhere about fifteen years, I think. Maybe, longer. I can scarcely remember the place without him."

"Any family?"

"One daughter, Violet. A very charming young woman. Why this curiosity about the old boy? I shouldn't think there could be a more harmless person breathing, and I'll swear he hasn't a secret in the world. He's scarcely left the place for ten years."

"Would he be likely to be interested in works on lunacy?"

"He's interested in any stuffy old book, on any abstruse question," Gerald Oakes declared. "He is one of the real old-fashioned sort, never been out of England and wouldn't send Violet any further than Cheltenham for boarding-school."

Daniel rose to his feet and held out his hand.

"I came down on a chance," he explained. "I see that I was on a false trail. I shan't worry you with any more questions."

The young man bade them both a courteous but rather tired farewell.

"My respects to Sir Francis," he said. "Tell him, if he wants to know any particulars, that I strolled out as usual at five o'clock to shoot a few rabbits, shot one in the little spinney beyond the park—he knows it—and a moment later seemed to feel everything around me become grey, and afterwards black. And that's all there is to be said."

"One moment," Daniel begged. "You differentiate between twilight and the blackness of total forgetfulness."

The young man nodded. There was some slight interest in his manner,

"Some day," he confided, "I believe I shall remember those first few seconds."

"Was there a woman connected with them?" Daniel ventured.

"I believe there was, but I can't remember her," the young man confessed.

"Anything like Miss Violet Maseley?"

"Not a scrap! Please excuse me now, Mr. Rocke."

Daniel and Ann drove off in silence.

"So that's that," Ann sighed.

"The Rev. Gordon Maseley seems to be a myth," Daniel admitted. "A man who has lived here for fifteen years and apparently never left the place—well, it knocks our theory on the head."

Near the lodge gates they met an elderly lady who was walking towards the house. She stopped the car somewhat imperiously, by holding out her hand. She was obviously Mrs. Oakes.

"This is Doctor Osborn, I am sure," she said. "You have been up to see my son, haven't you?"

Daniel shook his head.

"I have been to see your son," he acknowledged, "and I am very glad indeed to find him so little the worse for his adventure. I brought him a letter from Sir Francis Worton."

"Really!" she exclaimed. "Sir Francis is a very old friend of ours. I am sorry I stopped you. You see, we were expecting a physician this afternoon, and I took it for granted that you must be he."

"I am very glad to have had an opportunity of seeing your son," Daniel remarked. "His case is a very interesting one."

Mrs. Oakes looked at him curiously.

"If you are a friend of Sir Francis'," she said, "I suppose you are by way of being a detective—or isn't it 'investigator' you call it nowadays? Have you made any discoveries?"

"None whatever," Daniel confessed. "We had just a faint hope that we might have been able to shed some light upon the mystery, but I am afraid that has failed us. May I ask you one question?"

"Certainly."

"Are there any newcomers in the neighbourhood—people of whose antecedents you know nothing, or in whom you might possibly be deceived?"

"Not a soul," was the prompt reply. "With the exception of Mr. Lord and his wife, who are perfectly charming, I have known every one in this neighbourhood for twenty years."

"Mr. Lord and his wife," Daniel repeated quickly. "Who are they?"

"The Rev. Mr. Lord is the locum tenens for Mr. Gordon Maseley, who has been away for a month," Mrs. Oakes explained. "I have just been to see them off at the station. Very helpful indeed, Mr. Lord has been. I don't know how I should have borne up without him."

Daniel felt Ann's clutch at his arm. He sat quite still in the car. The wind was booming across the open spaces in the park, a spatter of rain was falling through the leaves of the trees. The place seemed suddenly unreal—to have an atmosphere of its own—the truth to roar in his ears. Londe had ordered the books in the name of the Rev. Gordon Maseley. Why not? And Gerald Oakes had forgotten.

"You said that you had been to see them off?" Daniel asked, as soon as he could control his voice. "Do you know where they went to?"

"London," Mrs. Oakes replied. "They caught the train at the junction. I understand that they have a small flat in Harley House. I am going to see them next month when I am in town."

Daniel's adieux were a little abruptly made. He called in the village to send off a telegram, and at the inn to collect his luggage. At the latter place the landlady handed him a note.

"This was left for you, sir, by the gentleman who has been doing duty for Mr. Maseley," she explained. "He left it here on his way to the station."

Daniel tore open the envelope.


My dear enemy,

You really lead me a very restless life. It is, I suppose, this odious Press. A mysterious disappearance would, naturally, set that mighty brain of yours to work. What a pity, though, that you always wait until you see something interesting in the newspapers. The young man will be quite all right in time, and I am proud of the success of my experiment. I have another one to make before long, which I think will interest you still more. If that succeeds my long quest will be over.

My respects to Gerald Oakes. He is a nice lad, but he shouldn't kiss another man's wife. Au revoir,

Joseph Londe.

P.S.—I shall leave South Fawley by the five-ten train, and you will, of course, have the usual posse of police and detectives at Waterloo. You are a dear, simple person, but just a trifle obvious, I think.

Daniel handed the note to his companion. He was a little white about the mouth. The strain of many disappointments was beginning to tell upon him. Ann slipped her arm through his.

"Daniel," she pointed out, "don't you realise this—that if he ever reaches his goal, or thinks he has, and recovers his reason, it will be the end of him. He will either commit suicide or give himself up to the police. If he ever does become sane there is a punishment waiting for him greater than any we can inflict."

They heard the train go screaming over the viaduct, miles away. Daniel looked after it, at first gloomily, then almost ferociously.

"If I had the strength of Samson," he muttered, "I would sacrifice the lives of every human being in that train, as Samson did the crowd in the Temple. I would pull down the standards of the viaduct and send it hurtling into space. I would watch a hundred people die, Ann, to be sure of that one man."

"I wouldn't," she answered simply. "I have more reason to hate him than you, and I am content to wait. I can see the signs coming already. Before very long he will be only too anxious to pull down the standards himself. When he begins to feel like that, of what account is our vengeance?"

Daniel said nothing, but the hungry light in his eyes was undimmed.</story>