<story title="THE BORGIA TOUCH" date="1923">
THE whole Riviera from Hyères to Monaco lay basking in a glorious flood of spring sunshine. The mimosa was in full bloom and the flowering shrubs from the villas around Cap Martin shook their voluptuous fragrance into the softly moving air. From her balcony, Judith leaned, in an exquisite négligé, and hummed joyfully the strain of the Neapolitan ditty which was then the air of the moment in the cafes—a song of love, and flowers, and passion. She looked over her shoulder and called back through the French windows:

"Hurry, Joseph! I've something to show you." Londe presently appeared. He had just finished shaving and he wore a silk dressing gown—a gorgeous purple-coloured garment with an embroidered girdle about his waist. He turned his face seaward for a moment and drew in a long breath of the lemon-scented air. Afterwards he looked down at the little quay, close to which a yacht lay at anchor.

"The south wind has gone, then," he observed, with satisfaction. "I like it better when the Judith lies close at hand."

"Pooh!" she laughed. "You never forget." He turned and seated himself at the round breakfast table, whose dainty appurtenances glittered in the sunlight.

"Well, what is it you want to show me?" he asked absently, watching the curve of Judith's white arm as she lifted the coffee pot.

With the other hand she pushed an illustrated paper across to him, and pointed proudly to the open page.

"Me!" she exclaimed. "What do you think of me, Joseph? Am I not beautiful?"

He stared at the full-length picture, for a moment, blankly. It was a photograph of Judith, taken at a happy moment—Judith, exquisitely gowned, brilliant, happy. A man in tennis clothes was standing talking to her. It was entitled "Mrs. Broadbent and the Vicomte d'Aix, on the tennis courts at Monte Carlo."

"You let them take this?" he muttered, staring at the picture with fascinated eyes.

"Why not?" she answered happily. "See how beautiful I look, Joseph. It was a Poiret gown. And the lace hat—Elise says herself that no one can wear those hats as I do."

"How shall you like to wear the asylum clothes again?" he asked roughly.

"Asylum! Joseph, don't be horrible," she exclaimed.

"I mean it," he went on, his voice shaking with suppressed anger. "Coarse flannel next your skin, a bath with yellow soap once a week, and a serge covering like a sack to wrap around your body."

She began to sob. She was like a child who has been scolded.

"Don't you suppose they'll see that picture in London, and know that we are back in Monte Carlo?" he went on bluntly. "Don't you remember that we have enemies, the business of whose life it is to track us down? Worton, through whom I might have been a sane man at this moment, if you hadn't interfered, with your accursed susceptibility. Worton and the grubbing cipher reader, who escaped at the last moment, and the girl who had a father. Don't you know they are hunting for us, all of them? They are fools, but even fools blunder into success sometimes. They were here looking for us, only in January, because of that affair of the young man. We have had a rest—two months, practically in hiding. Now, directly we get back again where there are some interests in life for me, you beckon to them, back in England, to come and start the chase again. You fool! Can't you realise that there isn't one of them who won't recognise that picture? Your brain must be shrivelling, day by day."

She sprang away from him. Her beautiful eyes were still wet with tears and her lips quivering.

"I am very sorry, Joseph," she sobbed. "You know that sometimes I don't think. It seems to get more difficult every day, and I cannot remember. Of course it was very foolish of me. That awful place! It comes back to me now. Horrible! Horrible!"

She wrung her hands. He contemplated her with gloomy satisfaction. Her agony pleased him.

"You're getting worse," he pronounced. "You're getting more childish every day. The world fades away from you."

"It is true," she faltered. "There are times when I cannot think, when I feel the clouds coming. Save me, Joseph! You are so clever. You can do something!"

He remained motionless and thoughtful. From the gardens of the next villa came the twanging of a guitar, and the sound of gay voices, a little reckless, a little passionate, preaching the doctrine of love with all abandonment. The sun was growing warmer, the faint scent of the sea mingled with the more sensuous odours of the flowers.

"Nobody can do anything for you," he pronounced pitilessly. "Your days for thought are past. You must cling to the sensations of the moment. Make the best of them, for there is nothing else in life for you. If, by any chance," he went on, "they get you back again through this"—he touched the picture—"and they take away all your soft clothes and luxuries, you will be a screaming lunatic in a week."

"Don't let them take me, Joseph," she pleaded. "Don't let them!"

He sat with clenched fists, gazing over the Mediterranean, seeing nothing of its gorgeous patches of blue, the pools of light and glittering jewel-strewn sheen. He tasted the whole bitterness of foreknowledge.

"Of what account are you, after all?" he muttered. "Here am I, a different order of being altogether—fit for any position in the world, save for that one tiny clot of madness, one evil pin-prick, which nothing can move. I could be a master of science. I have all the knowledge those others strive for. I have vision. I was made to be their master. And, here I am, all the time dodging fate, with the cunning of a lunatic, waiting for the hand upon my shoulder, the grim sentence of my fellows! I, their chief, the lord of all knowledge!"

She was almost in hysterics now.

"Don't let them take me, Joseph!" she cried, again and again.

He pointed to the paper.

"You!" he scoffed. "What do you matter? A butterfly without a soul, a thing of beauty, all husk and show, risking hell for both of us to gratify your vanity."

"I didn't think, indeed, I didn't think," she pleaded. "The camera man was there. It was all over before I could turn."

He waved her away. He was thinking again.

"They will be here directly," he reflected. "The bespectacled pedant—a fool still, but getting wiser with the experience of many failures—the girl with the angry eyes, and the aristocratic policeman. They are none of them very clever, but they will get us some day. They hang on. They will be here, perhaps this morning."

"You are cleverer than they are, Joseph," she moaned. "You always win. There is the car ready, the yacht, or shall we fly? We can fly from Nice."

"My time for winning draws near to an end," he declared, with a somewhat ominous note of prophecy in his tone. "I have heard the warning. I have heard the footsteps amongst the hills, the footsteps upon wool, passing over the hills, coming downwards, always downwards. What have I done evil? I, who saved thousands of lives. It is that missing atom of brain. If I had that I should know."

"I was a fool," she sobbed.

Suddenly the villa gates swung to. The sound of horses' hoofs reached their ears from the drive. She lifted her head eagerly, expectantly. All the gloom and sorrow had passed. She clapped her hands.

"It is Armand," she cried. "It is the Vicomte. How beautifully he rides, and what a lovely horse!"

Londe rose to his feet.

"Amuse yourself with him for a time," he advised. "I must go and think. I must decide whether we disappear, or face the storm."

Ann stepped off the train at Monte Carlo, with fifty pounds in her pocket, a single trunk, containing in chief her two evening gowns, one afternoon toilette, and a revolver. She engaged a room at a small hotel, took out her tickets for the Salon Prive and the Sporting Club, and paid a visit to an official of the place. He received her politely, but without enthusiasm.

"You will not know my name," she said, "but I am, as a matter of fact, the advanced guard of a small Commission, who are coming out here to try and effect the arrest of a dangerous criminal whom we believe to be living in the place."

It was an unfortunate start. Officials at Monte Carlo do not like to be told that their Principality could possibly harbour members of the criminal fraternity.

"Indeed, Mademoiselle," was the civil but cold reply. "Perhaps you can tell me the names of the members of this Commission to which you allude?"

"One is Sir Francis Worton," she replied, "who is the head of the Home Branch of the English Secret Service. He is bringing an emissary from Scotland Yard with him, and there is also another gentleman, Mr. Daniel Rocke, a friend of Sir Francis'."

"Do you know the name of this supposed criminal?" the official asked.

"He passes under the name of 'Broadbent,'" she confided. "His wife's picture was in the Tatler this week."

Her companion smiled a little superciliously.

"It happens," he remarked, "that we have recently investigated the antecedents of the gentleman in question. We discovered nothing against him. Mr. and Mrs. Broadbent are very valued and welcome visitors to the Principality."

Ann frowned.

"That man who calls himself Broadbent is a murderer and a lunatic," she declared. "He was responsible for the death of one young man here a few months ago. We came over then directly we read about the case, but both Mr. and Mrs. Broadbent had disappeared."

"Mademoiselle," the official said patiently, "the circumstances concerning the death of that young man have been fully enquired into. There is not the slightest foundation for the statement which you have just made."

Ann checked a somewhat hasty reply.

"Why did they leave the place, then, the day after the young man's suicide?" she demanded.

"Their leaving the place was a perfectly natural happening," was the civil but cold rejoinder. "Mrs. Broadbent was naturally very much upset, and the doctor ordered her an immediate change. As to their being in hiding, they were, I believe, in Rome the whole of the time. I remember now that one of the gentlemen, of whom you have been speaking, came to make enquiries here. We told him then that we could discover nothing against either this gentleman or his wife. They have come back here quite openly, and until official representations are made to me, I shall do nothing to interfere with their comfort."

"Will you permit me, sir, to tell you the history of this man and his wife?" Ann persisted.

"Another time, Mademoiselle," was the hasty answer. "There are demands upon me this morning."

"The man has been in a lunatic asylum," she declared indignantly. "He has committed three murders."

"These incidents do not appear in the dossier of James Broadbent which we have," the official assured her, smiling. "Mademoiselle, you will permit me to wish you good morning. I will receive your friends when they arrive if they should care to pay me a visit."

Ann was repulsed. For the first time she doubted the wisdom of the impulse which had made her leave London at a moment's notice, upon seeing the picture. Daniel, as it chanced, had been away in Somersetshire, Sir Francis was in Ireland, and no one at Scotland Yard was willing to move without more definite information than she was able to give. She had sent off desperate telegrams, and herself caught the first possible train. Now that she was here, it seemed that there was nothing she could do. For the first time, too, she appreciated the almost brilliant cunning of the man who had escaped them so often, who did not even take a pseudonym with which he was not prepared to link a perfectly connected and irreproachable past. She was inclined to be depressed as she walked disconsolately through the clean, attractive streets, with their crowds of lounging pleasure seekers—little groups whose hearts and spirits seemed touched by the sunshine. She had some idea of going back to her hotel. Then a seat outside the Café de Paris, a smiling waiter, her favourite air from "Thais" played by the red-coated band, decided her fate. She sat down and ordered a Dubonnet, herself becoming one of the gay throng. And at the next table sat Londe!

He was seated sideways to her, a little turned away, and she realised from the first the futility of any attempt at escape. She was content to study him for a few minutes. He was perfectly dressed, in the negligent fashion of the place, in well-fitting grey tweeds, grey Homburg hat, and brown shoes. His beard was carefully trimmed, his complexion and alert manner showed no signs of decadence, nor of evil conscience. His tie was fastened by a single pearl pin. He was talking eagerly and forcefully to his two companions, men of middle age and professional appearance, who seemed to listen to him with the utmost respect. They were talking in French, and, so far as Ann could gather, of some abstruse scientific subject. She listened in wonder to Londe's unhesitating stream of conversation. He was evidently holding forth on some subject on which he was an authority. Then suddenly, without any warning, he turned round in his chair, and looked her full in the face. He rose at once to his feet and bowed courteously without a shadow of embarrassment or disturbance.

"My dear young lady!" he exclaimed. "This is most delightful—a charming surprise. Permit me to present Monsieur le Professeur Trenchard, of Paris. Docteur Coppet, the resident physician here. Miss Ann Lancaster."

Londe's manner was perfect. There was no escape, scarcely an alternative. In less than a minute Ann found herself seated between the other two men, her glass of Dubonnet replenished, the guest of the man who had killed her father, the man whom she knew to be a lunatic with death always at his finger tips—the man whom she had come to destroy.

"You are fortunate in your acquaintance with Mr. Broadbent," Docteur Coppet remarked to her in an undertone. "He is certainly one of the most brilliant men of the day. Professeur Trenchard has come all the way from Paris to see him, after studying a paper of his on 'comparative lunacy.'"

"I have heard that he was an authority on the subject," Ann murmured.

"The greatest—I should say the greatest," the doctor confided enthusiastically. "It is a privilege to have been able to make his acquaintance here."

Londe brought his scientific discussion to an abrupt conclusion and turned courteously to Ann.

"Are your friends—er—with you. Miss Lancaster?" he enquired.

"Not yet," she answered. "They are following—perhaps to-morrow."

"I see," he murmured. "You are here for the purpose of making preliminary investigations."

"Precisely."

"And you expect them to-morrow, did I understand you to say?"

"They may be delayed until the next day," she replied. "They are certainly coming."

"And in the meantime you are alone?"

"I am alone," Ann admitted.

"You must dine with us to-night at the villa," Londe suggested. "I am sure my wife will be charmed."

The sound of music and the gay voices around seemed suddenly to die away. She felt herself struggling in the throes of a horrible nightmare. It seemed incredible that this man, the horror of her life, should be sitting here, mixing with his fellow creatures, light-heartedly, with dignity, and even condescension; that he should be asking her without the slightest sign of hesitation to accept his hospitality. It was grotesque and incredible.

"I am afraid—" she began.

"I shall take no refusal," Londe interrupted cheerfully. "To-night, as it happens, we entertain a little company of friends. Monsieur le Professeur, Monsieur le Docteur here, the Vicomte d'Aix—well, there may be others, but of these I know. We certainly shall not leave you alone at your hotel."

"My experience of your hospitality—" she began, trying not to tremble.

He laughed at her.

"Mademoiselle," he said, "life is a great game, and to taste its full savour one should be prepared for the unexpected, one should have the courage always to face it. You shall be fetched at eight o'clock by the Vicomte d'Aix. He is a harmless youth who adores my wife. He shall also conduct you home. May I know at what hotel?"

"The St. James," she murmured.

"It is arranged," Londe declared, rising to his feet.

A moment later she was wondering whether it were not a dream. Three distinguished-looking men—Londe himself, perhaps, with his burly frame and assured air, the most noticeable—were strolling away towards a waiting motor-car. She watched him—the central figure—with absorbing curiosity. He was apparently well known. A gendarme saluted, a lady bowed, a man and woman waved their salute from across the road. He bore himself with dignity—almost with condescension—her father's murderer, a lunatic criminal, a man who had baffled the police a dozen times and to secure whom they were even now rushing hotfoot across France. She herself had travelled without food or sleep to urge the police on to his track. And he apparently welcomed her with pleasure, had asked her to dine at the Villa, had behaved with the courtesy of a man of the world, had ignored with the most perfect diplomacy the blood feud which lay between them. It was incredible.

The remainder of the day passed restlessly. There came no word from Daniel at the hotel, not even the telegram she had expected to let her know that he had started. At seven o'clock she changed into the more impressive of her simple evening toilettes. She made up her mind that if the Vicomte called for her she would go. She would leave word at the office where she was, and if there were no other guests she would decline to stay. There could be no risk. The Vicomte was a well-known young Frenchman of fashion. She would go with him and return with him. Even Daniel could not disapprove, and she would be able to spy out the land; she would be able to decide whether his attitude was a magnificent bluff, or whether it were really his intention to stand firm, to entrench himself behind his great fame and risk the whole truth becoming known.

At eight o'clock she descended to the lounge and, a few minutes later, a very elegantly turned-out young man, whom she recognised by his picture as the Vicomte, entered and, after looking around, approached her, hat in hand.

"I have the honour to address Mademoiselle Lancaster?" he enquired.

"That is my name," she admitted, rising. "I suppose you are the Vicomte d'Aix."

He bowed low.

"I have the privilege to escort you to the Villa Violette," he announced.

"I am quite ready," she replied.

So far he was entirely canonical. She took her place by his side in the small but luxurious limousine. They drove off in silence.

"You are very well acquainted with Mr. and Mrs. Broadbent?" Ann ventured presently.

"I can scarcely call myself an old friend," he admitted, "but I visit them a great deal. I think that Madame Broadbent is the most beautiful woman I have ever seen in my life."

"I shall be interested to meet her again," Ann observed.

"She is like a wonderful flower unfolding a little further every day," the young man continued enthusiastically. "She is entrancing,"

"How do you get on with her husband?" Ann asked bluntly.

The young man's attitude showed that he regarded the question as not being altogether in the best of taste.

"Monsieur Broadbent is a man of science," he pointed out. "I respect him greatly. We are not on intimate terms. I do not call him my friend."

"Do you know whether they are leaving Monte Carlo soon?" Ann enquired.

"I have heard no mention of their doing so," the Vicomte replied. "I trust not."

At the villa they were received with some ceremony. A butler welcomed them in the hall. Two other men-servants were in evidence. An irreproachable-looking maid took charge of Ann. The whole atmosphere of the place was normal. In the little drawing-room her last apprehensions vanished. The Professeur from Paris was already there, the local doctor, Londe and his wife. Ann gave a little gasp as she shook hands with her hostess. The Vicomte had not exaggerated. Judith, in her gown of pale blue velvet, a rope of pearls around her neck, her beautiful hair becomingly arranged, youth and health alight in her face, was indescribable. She seemed scarcely more than twenty-five years of age, and she had the conquering presence of a woman at whose feet the world lay. Her welcome to Ann was kindly but indifferent. She had the air of never having seen her before. They went in to dinner almost at once.

For ever afterwards that meal remained a hazy memory with Ann. Its appurtenances were all, of their kind, perfect—the lighting, the food, the wine, the noiseless service. One or other of the guests talked to her and she replied, glibly enough, but mechanically. She could not keep her eyes away from Londe. He was at once the perfect host, the savant, the courtier. He kept Professeur Trenchard interested, at times almost excited, yet he never allowed the general conversation to flag. He dropped a valuable hint to the doctor as to one of his cases, explained minutely the only safe system at roulette by the use of which heavy loss was impossible, and smilingly acknowledged that his own large winnings were solely a matter of chance, that he had not the patience himself to play upon any system at all. The meal drew to an end. At Londe's request coffee and liqueurs were served at the table. With only two women, he suggested, an adjournment was unsociable. A little haze of cigarette smoke hung about the table. Conversation grew louder at one end, softer at the other. The Vicomte was leaning towards Judith. Her eyes shone Hke brilliant but unspeaking stars through the haze.—And then Ann was suddenly conscious that she was struggling against a curiously potent sense of sleepiness. The voices around her died away, became louder again, and then receded like the waves of the sea. Her eyes ached, her head dropped. She felt herself mumbling an apology. She lurched a little forward. Once more the voices had gone. There was silence—relief.

The awakening was the most wonderful thing she had ever known. It came suddenly and without a start, just as though she had opened her eyes after a long night's sleep in her own bed. She sat up and looked ground her, dazed and incredulous. The most amazing thing of all was that she was still at the dinner table. The sunlight was shining full into the room, paling the electric light, giving a strange appearance of debauchery to the remains of the dessert, the half-filled wine and liqueur glasses, the cigarette ashes on the plates. Opposite to her, as though aroused by her movement, the doctor opened his eyes and gazed wonderingly around. The Professeur followed suit. The Vicomte, with a little groan, staggered to his feet. Only two places at the table were empty—the places of Londe and his wife.

"Why, it's morning," the Vicomte exclaimed.

"What is this thing which has happened to us all?" the Professeur cried.

Then they saw a piece of paper pinned to the tablecloth in front of Londe's place. The Professeur seized and read it aloud:


The Borgias provided sometimes strange entertainment for their guests. We, of the modern world follow mildly in their footsteps. Both my wife and I hating farewells, have chosen this means of bidding all our friends adieu, and to the Professeur particularly I bequeath this memory of the dreamless night which I trust he will spend, an example of the effect of the drug we were discussing this afternoon.— Farewell...

The Professeur was a man of science first and a human being afterwards. His mind was entirely occupied with his own sensations.

"It is amazing," he declared. "I must have gone off to sleep in ten seconds. I had no dreams. I have slept like a child."

"I have certainly lost some patients," the doctor grumbled. "It is eight o'clock and I may have been wanted a dozen times. A foolish joke!"

"Joke!" the Vicomte cried bitterly. "Mon Dieu! If it is true that they have gone, I am a broken man."

Ann threw open the French windows. A little breath of flower-scented breeze swept in, mingled with the flavour of the sea. On the horizon the white hull of a yacht glittered in the sunshine. She pointed towards it.

"There is the real humour of the situation," she cried bitterly. "The worst of it is that no one but myself can appreciate it."

The butler threw open the door.

"Le petit dejeuner is served upon the terrace, Madame et Messieurs," he announced.</story>