<story title="THE SHAFTESBURY AVENUE MURDER" date="1923">
WINDERGATE, having paid an unsuccessful visit to the offices in Shaftesbury Avenue, showed a disposition to linger. Miss Ann Lancaster, who was not really busy, leaned back in her chair with her fingers resting idly upon the typewriter.

"I am sorry about Mr. Rocke," she said. "He is very uncertain these days."

"Busy?" her caller enquired.

"Some special work," Ann told him.

"Anything in my way?"

She shook her head.

"Some documents in cipher which one of our agents in Berlin came across and sent to the Foreign Office. Mr. Rocke goes down there every morning."

"What time do you close for lunch?" Windergate asked, glancing at his watch.

"About one, as a rule," was the careless reply. "We have no fixed hour."

Windergate coughed. He was a self-contained, self-possessed person, but he gave one the impression of being momentarily a little nervous.

"You wouldn't care to—I wonder whether you'd come and have lunch with me?" he invited.

Ann was taken by surprise. There had never been anything about her companion's manner to suggest that feminine society was one of his distractions.

"It is very kind of you," she said, hesitatingly. "I don't bother about lunch much, as a rule."

"We'll make up for it to-day, then," Windergate declared, recovering his confidence. "We'll go to a little quiet place I know of, close here. Never any crowd there."

Ann closed down her desk, retired to a corner of the room and put on her hat.

"It's very nice of you," she repeated. "I am quite ready. You realise, don't you, that I am in my working clothes?"

Windergate glanced at her once or twice as they passed through the streets, and his previous impressions were all confirmed. She was dressed with the utmost simplicity; but she possessed to the full that air of nameless elegance which is the heritage of the chosen few of her sex. Her walk was graceful, her poise pleasant, but not exuberant. She took no trouble to conceal the fact that the little expedition was a pleasure to her.

"I love nice restaurants," she confided, as she unfolded her napkin and looked around her with interest. "I've only seen the outside of this one."

"Don't you ever go out to lunch with Mr. Rocke?" he asked her.

"Twice in my life," she replied, "and then it was when we were working together. As a matter of fact," she went on, "Mr. Rocke is very careless about lunch. If he is interested at all in his work, he just doesn't leave off."

"And then he grumbles at his digestion," Windergate observed.

She laughed.

"He has fits of being very sorry for himself," she declared, "and fits of forgetting that there's anything wrong with him, which, as a matter of fact, there isn't. His latest fad, though, is that it's quieter in the office between one and half-past two. It can't really make any difference, because we never hear anything of the people in the other part of the building."

Ann, like most healthy young women, accustomed though she was to the slightest of lunches, was perfectly well able to adapt herself to her host's view upon the subject. Windergate, away from his professional atmosphere, was a very pleasant, almost an amusing companion. She finished her coffee and cigarette with regret.

"Thank you for an excellent lunch," she said, as she drew on her gloves. 'T expect Mr. Rocke will be back now, if you like to come round and see him."

"I think I will," Windergate acquiesced, "although I haven't anything very important to say."

"No news, I suppose?"

Her companion made a little grimace.

"No," he admitted. "I am afraid this is one of those cases where a lunatic has proved himself cleverer than two sane men. We shall have him some day, though."

"I hope so," Ann prayed, with sudden fervour.

"It was the cunning of the lunatic which helped him to evade us," Windergate observed, as they started on their homeward walk. "It will be the inevitable persistence of the lunatic which will deliver him into our hands some day."

They reached the block of buildings in which Rocke's offices were situated. Ann looked at the board and found the key missing.

"He is here, then," she remarked, as she preceded her companion to the lift. "Has Mr. Rocke been in long?" she asked the girl in attendance.

"Can't say, miss," the latter replied. "I've only just come on duty."

They stepped out of the lift at its destination, and climbed the last flight of stairs. Ann opened the door of the outer office and, crossing the room, threw open the inner door.

"Mr. Windergate is here to see you, Mr. Rocke," she announced.

The figure seated at the desk made no movement.

"Mr. Windergate," Ann began again

Then, with a little cry, she broke off in her sentence. Something in the limp, unnatural pose of the man seated in the revolving chair, suddenly terrified her. She sprang forward, but Windergate was quicker. He stood between her and the figure at the desk.

"Miss Lancaster," he said, "you had better go back to your office. Try and compose yourself. Ring up Scotland Yard for me, and ask for Harrison and Kimball to be sent round here at once."

"Has anything happened to him?" she asked, shivering in every limb.

"I am afraid that he is dead," Windergate answered gravely. "There is a bullet wound through his temple. But—"

The connecting door leading to the outer office was suddenly opened. Rocke stepped in.

"What the devil's all this?" he demanded irritably.

Daniel, Sir Francis Worton—commonly known as Q20, the head of the new Secret Service Department represented by those mystic letters—and Windergate, met, a fortnight later, at the former's office for an informal conference.

"The subject of my murder is naturally an interesting one to me," Daniel observed, as he swung round in his chair and offered cigarettes to the other two men. "Is it my fancy, Windergate, or are you moving a little more slowly in this matter than usual? You can't afford too many failures, you know."

"Departmental jealousy again!" Windergate declared lightly. "As a matter of fact, we have gone a little further than we have thought it wise to make public. I am now in a position to tell you the name of the man who was shot whilst sitting in your chair."

"Has any one identified him, then?" Daniel asked.

"Not voluntarily," was the thoughtful reply. "As you know, no papers at all were found upon the dead man, but a doll in a cardboard box was discovered in his pocket. We made enquiries amongst the London buyers of such articles, and discovered one firm who had just ordered a quantity from a German agent visiting London. The rest was quite simple. The man's name was Israel Rasters, and he had a single room in a block of offices in the Tottenham Court Road."

"I can add a little to that information," Worton observed. "Kasters came over here in the wake of a well-known German financier, some months ago. He remained behind with the avowed intention of opening up some trade. My department has kept him shadowed since his arrival. There has been nothing to report. He seems, indeed, to have been an industrious, hard-working man. The only suspicious thing about him that came to our knowledge was that he was certainly in communication with people in Berlin whom we do not trust."

Daniel threw the remainder of his cigarette into the grate, and took a fresh one from the open box by his side. His manner had become graver, his tone was almost portentous.

"The first half of the mystery now solves itself," he said. "The visit of Israel Kasters to this office at a time when he must have believed it to be unoccupied, is explained. My work for the last fortnight at the Foreign Office has consisted in deciphering some secret correspondence which was seized by one of our agents in Berlin. Occasionally, I have brought some of the less important documents to work on here. Kasters evidently got to know of that, and came with the idea of purloining them. You will remember that a small jimmy was found upon him."

Worton nodded thoughtfully.

"You and I know the truth, Daniel," he pointed out, "so it is perhaps only fair to take Windergate into our confidence. These documents, which one of my agents seized and handed over to the Foreign Office, comprise, amongst other things, a list of places where secret stocks of arms exist in Germany. A German agent over here would certainly think it worth while to go to any lengths to regain possession of them."

"I quite see that," Windergate agreed. "The presence of the murdered man in this office is now explained. That, however, only leads us to the baffling part of the whole thing. Why was Rasters, in the pursuit of his avocation as burglar-spy, murdered—and by whom?"

"The first thing one has to make up one's mind about," Worton remarked, "is whether he was shot as Israel Kasters or in mistake for Rocke. When the blinds are drawn here, the light is very bad, and any one entering from this door, and shooting from a few yards away, might easily have thought that the person seated at the desk was the natural occupant of the room. You yourselves admitted that you were deceived for the first few seconds."

"I think we may accept the fact," Windergate observed, "that a man coming here with the idea of murdering Mr. Rocke, might have shot the man at the desk, believing he was accomplishing his purpose. But have you any enemies likely to go to such extremes?"

Daniel shook his head.

"I can't imagine that I have," he admitted. "The only really dangerous person I can think of, who I know wouldn't hesitate to commit murder, is the man who slipped through our fingers at Salisbury Plain. We are not on his track, though, so it seems an absurd thing to imagine that he should risk his life and liberty in this fashion. As a first-class lunatic, I think he would be far too cunning."

"My people have been watching a house in Hampstead in connection with that affair," Windergate intervened. "If we are on the right track, he might easily have imagined that you were concerned in it."

"The trouble of it is," Daniel reminded them all, "that whereas a dozen people saw Israel Rasters come in, not one of them seems to have seen anybody else whose presence cannot be accounted for. Whoever murdered Kasters couldn't have flown here, or come in through the window."

"That's true," Windergate agreed.

Ann knocked at the door and entered.

"There is a young person who wants to see you, Mr. Rocke," she announced.

"Indeed!" Daniel replied, with gentle sarcasm. "It might possibly have occurred to you that I am by way of being engaged."

Ann remained unruffled, though her tone grew a little colder.

"The young person, I think, has something to say on the subject which you are discussing. She seems rather excited."

"Show her in at once," Daniel directed.

The three men looked up curiously as the young woman was ushered in. She was good-looking in a somewhat bold fashion. She wore a very low-cut blouse and very short skirts.

"I wanted to speak to Mr. Rocke," she announced, a little embarrassed.

"I am Mr. Rocke," he told her. "What can I do for you? We understood that you had something to say about what happened in this office the week before last."

"I have something to say to you," the girl admitted, staring at him in somewhat puzzled fashion. "I have been expecting to hear from you for days."

"From me?" Daniel repeated. "But why?"

The girl shrugged her shoulders.

"I'll see you another time," she suggested. "You're busy now."

She turned away. Daniel held out his hand.

"Stop a minute," he begged. "I didn't recognise you at first. You're the lift girl, aren't you?"

"Not so much 'lift girl', if you please," she retorted, with a little toss of the head. "I and another young lady have run the lift here since the building was turned into offices. It's my afternoon out, so I thought I'd just pop up and have a word with you. Another time will do. See you to-morrow, perhaps."

"Look here," Daniel said, "I don't quite understand you. These gentlemen are quite as much interested in the affair as I am. One of them is from Scotland Yard, and we were talking it over as you came in. If you have anything to say, now is the time."

She looked at him in amazement.

"Are you bluffing?" she demanded.

"I certainly am not," Daniel replied. "What do you mean by 'bluffing'? If there's anything you know about this affair, now is the time to tell it to us."

The girl swung round on her heel.

"Thank you," she concluded, "I'll choose my own time."

She pushed her way from the office. They heard the outer door close and her footsteps on the stairs. They all three looked at one another.

"That young woman knows something," Windergate remarked solemnly.

"The queer part of it is," Daniel observed, "that she appears to think I do too."

Windergate, on his way out into the street, found their recent visitor studying the name-board. He raised his hat. The girl glanced at him with some interest, but without recognition.

"I saw you a few minutes ago in Mr. Rocke's office," Windergate reminded her.

"Oh, you were one of them three, were you?" she remarked. "Didn't recognise you."

"I wonder whether you would favour me with a few minutes' conversation?" he suggested.

"I'm not going to tell you anything—at least I don't think so," she replied.

"All the same, just a cup of tea over at that little place opposite," he urged. "I won't keep you long."

She looked at him doubtfully. Windergate was very presentable, she had nothing particular to do, and men were the one interest of her life.

"You won't make yourself a nuisance asking too many questions?" she demanded.

"I shall probably forget to ask any questions at all," he assured her tactfully.

The girl passed out into the street by his side.

"We won't go there," she said, indicating the tea shop to which he had pointed. "There's a much nicer one a few steps further down. It's a bit more expensive, but it's not so crowded. You get little tables to yourself, and pink-shaded lights. Quite stylish!"

"Wherever you say," Windergate agreed cheerfully. "You lead and I'll follow."

"Anywhere?" she asked, with an arch glance.

"Try me," he replied gallantly.

They entered the tea room of her choice and found a sufficiently retired table. Windergate was shrewd enough to avoid all reference to the subject on which he desired information, until the meal was nearing completion. He learned that his companion's name was Rose Paxton; that she earned thirty-eight shillings a week, which, after she had paid for her board and lodging, left her a very insufficient amount with which to attire herself in the manner she desired; that gentlemen were sometimes generous; that she liked her companion's tie, and his voice, and that she had a weakness for grey eyes; that she loved the pictures, but preferred the theatres when a suitable escort presented himself; that she was for the moment unattached, most of her beaux having failed to come up to the financial standard required. Confidence having been thoroughly established, he ventured, as though the matter had suddenly come into his mind, to ask her a question.

"What were you going to say to Mr. Rocke, if you had found him alone this afternoon?" he enquired curiously.

The girl had been talking so much that she had lost the gift of reticence. She leaned forward in her chair.

"Are you a friend of Mr. Rocke?" she asked.

"Certainly."

"You're not out to do him any harm?"

"Quite the contrary," he assured her.

"Well, I came in to ask him," she explained, "why he hadn't kept a promise he made me some time ago."

"What promise did he make?"

"It was on a certain afternoon, not so very long ago," she continued mysteriously. "I took him down from the sixth floor alone, and he gave me the biggest tip I'd ever had—half a sovereign. 'Look here,' he said, just before he stepped out, 'I want you to forget that you ever brought me up, in case you should be asked. Wipe it out of your mind—you understand? 'I asked him what the game was, but he didn't reply. 'You do as I ask,' he insisted, 'and there'll be a nice little sum for your banking account.' He said something about taking me to the theatre too; but just then we reached the ground floor and out he shot. In about five minutes, if you please, in he came again, just muttered 'Sixth floor ', and got out, when he arrived there, without as much as a word or a 'Good afternoon.' That's how he's been all the time since, as stand-offish as you like. I made up my mind I'd go and have a talk with him at the first opportunity, and that's why I turned up there this afternoon."

"Did the day you are speaking of happen to be the day on which a man was murdered in Mr. Rocke's office?"

"Yes."

He was thoughtful for a moment.

"Were you at the inquest?" he asked.

"No," she replied. "The other girl was. The day the thing happened was really my afternoon off. I was standing talking to Bessie—that's the other young lady—when a boy she wanted to speak to came down the stairs. A bell rang from the sixth floor, and I took the lift up so as to give her a moment with this chap."

"And you found Mr. Rocke waiting for you on the sixth floor?"

"Yes! Everything just as I've told you. What should you do about it?"

Windergate considered the matter for a moment.

"What you have told me is very important," he said.

"Why are you so interested?" she asked.

"Because I belong to the C.I.D. at Scotland Yard," he told her. "I am really in charge of this affair."

She looked at him for a moment, blankly disappointed.

"A 'tec!'" she exclaimed. "I thought you were a gentleman!"

"I am man enough to enjoy talking to a pretty girl, anyhow," he declared, "and if you liked me well enough to let me make you a little present—"

"Oh, I like you all right," she interrupted; "but it isn't quite the same thing. I thought you'd brought me out to tea because you liked the look of me—taken a fancy to me, or something of that sort. Seems now as though you'd been kidding all the time."

"I haven't," he assured her earnestly. "Look here, I'll take you to the theatre any time you like this week."

She smiled at him beatifically.

"You're a dear!" she exclaimed. "And as to what I've told you, it's the truth, after all, and he hasn't kept his word. What should you do about it?"

"I should wait until to-morrow," Windergate advised, "and then go and see him again."

"Righto!" the girl assented. "And what about Friday night for the theatre?"

"I'll get the seats," he promised. "We'll have dinner in the Trocadero Grill Room at seven o'clock."

"You haven't half an hour to spare for the pictures now, I suppose?" she asked wistfully, as they reached the street.

He glanced at his watch.

"Come along," he invited. "We'll go opposite. I can just manage an hour."

They crossed the street, the girl's fingers already feeling for his arm.

Daniel, in those days, was oppressed by vague but very singular apprehensions. He became suddenly convinced of the fact that he was being watched, that he walked all the time in some sort of danger. He had stronger locks put on to both his doors, and he went armed. He was not a nervous man; but the feeling was persistent and ineradicable. He walked down Shaftesbury Avenue as though he were passing through a jungle in an untrodden forest, with enemies on every side. The men and women who jostled him on the pavement all became objects of suspicion. He grew even more irritable and captious than was his wont. At his club he fancied that people were beginning to avoid him. Windergate, too, seemed to have lost all interest in tracing the murderer of Israel Rasters, and remained curiously aloof. Even Ann, resentful of his frequent fits of ill temper, became unapproachable. One morning he sent for her. He was feeling particularly depressed and bad-tempered.

"Miss Lancaster," he said, "I saw you dining at the Milan last night with Windergate."

"Did you?" she remarked quietly.

"What the mischief's the matter with Windergate and you, and all of them?" he burst out. "You seem to dry up into monosyllables whenever I come near, and Windergate avoids the place as though we had the plague. Tell me, is Windergate ass enough to think that I killed Israel Rasters?"

"Mr. Windergate does not talk to me about such matters," she answered.

"What the devil does he talk to you about, then? You see enough of him," Daniel exclaimed irritably.

She smiled.

"I think that Mr. Windergate admires me," she confessed.

He looked at her, frowning but intent.

"I suppose you are a good-looking girl," he admitted, as though the idea had occurred to him for the first time.

"Mr. Rocke!"

"Well, you don't find that offensive, do you?" he snapped. "I've nothing, of course, to do with your private relations with Mr. Windergate, but I should like to know whether you two are up to anything behind my back. I am perfectly certain that I am being shadowed."

"I know nothing of this," Ann assured him.

"Does Windergate believe that lift girl's cock-and-bull story?" he demanded.

"Why not ask him?"

"He is always engaged or out when I try to get hold of him."

"Mr. Windergate is a very busy man," she observed.

He looked at her steadily for a moment.

"You've nothing: to say to me?"

"Nothing," she replied, boldly enough, but with a little choking in her throat.

"Very good," he concluded quietly. "You can go. That night, Ann unburdened herself to her new friend.

"Mr. Windergate," she confided, "can't something be done about Mr. Rocke? He is getting absolutely unbearable. He knows that you are keeping away from him, he knows that I see you sometimes—he saw us, in fact, at the Milan together last night. He appealed to me, only this morning, to tell him what it all meant. I had to fence with him, and since then he hasn't spoken a word to me. He is looking so ill, too."

"You take a great interest in Mr. Rocke," Windergate remarked, a little jealously.

"Naturally," she answered. "Mr. Rocke and I have been through a great tragedy together. He is a little abrupt in his manner, but he has always meant to be kind. I can't bear to have him treat me as he is doing now."

"I suppose we shall have to come to an understanding very soon," Windergate admitted. "Stick it out for a few more days, please.—Now, what about a little dinner in the grill-room, and we can see the new film afterwards?"

She sighed.

"I don't feel like it to-night," she confessed. "I don't know why, but I feel thoroughly unsettled."

He eyed her curiously.

"Let me see, what is Rocke doing?" he asked.

"I sent you a copy of the page from his diary," she reminded him.

He nodded.

"I passed it on to Inspector Gresson," he said. "As a matter of fact, I remember, though. He is dining with Professor Mayer up at Hampstead. We might have a little dinner in the grill-room, then I'll just see how they are doing their job."

"You'll find me a very dull companion," she warned him.

"I'll take my risk," he decided.

At a few minutes past eleven that evening, a very dramatic little scene was being enacted in a street upon the outskirts of Hampstead; a short thoroughfare, with houses on either side standing well back from the road and protected by gardens of considerable extent.

The rows of trees lining the broad pavements interfered slightly with the illumination. Around one of the trees, a singular little group was gathered, A girl, apparently recovering from a faint, was seated on the ground with her back to a tree. There was a cut upon her forehead and a bruise upon her neck. She was ghastly pale and evidently in a terrified state. Standing by her side was a uniformed policeman with a notebook in his hand. A man who might have been a doctor was on the other side, and a young couple—a housemaid from one of the houses near, and her young man—were loitering arm-in-arm, looking on with keen interest. The girl was just finding strength to speak.

"My name is Amy Kinlake," she faltered. "I teach music. I have been playing accompaniments—at a house near. I was on my way home. A taxi overtook me—just here. A man got out and came towards me. I thought it must be some one I knew, or I should have called out. He advanced in quite an ordinary fashion, taking off his hat. Suddenly, he seized me and pressed a handkerchief against my mouth. There was a horrible smell—it wasn't chloroform—nothing like it—and—and—"

"Go on, miss, if you can," the constable begged.

"I couldn't move. I felt numb," she continued. "I think he must have lifted me into the taxicab when I gave a little scream that this gentleman must have heard. I suppose the man was frightened. He pushed me away and I fell down on the kerb. The taxicab drove off."

"Which way did it go?" the policeman asked.

"It turned the comer into Laburnum Road a moment ago."

"Can you describe the man?" the doctor enquired. "I have sent for my car, and when it comes I will take you home. In the meantime, in case you should lose consciousness again, tell us what he was like. I saw him myself, but I should like your description."

"So did we," the young man and the housemaid observed.

"Am I going to be ill, then?" the girl faltered.

"Most improbable," the doctor assured her. "At the same time, the drug which your assailant used is a strange one to me. I cannot tell what its effects may be. I should like you to tell us in your own words what the man was like. I will go on to the police station after I have taken you home."

The girl opened her lips. She was beginning to speak when her face seemed suddenly blanched once more with a new terror. She was looking along the strip of pavement which stretched towards the corner where the taxicab had disappeared. A man was walking along with brisk, even footsteps. As he came near, she shrieked.

"There he is!" she cried. "He's come back! Don't let him get near me!"

"Don't you be afraid, miss," the policeman answered. "If this is the man, we've got him, for sure."

They watched him curiously. At the last moment, seeing the little group upon the pavement, he hesitated. The policeman stepped forward.

"I'd like a word with you, sir," he said.

"What's the matter?" the newcomer demanded, approaching a little nearer.

"That's the man!" the girl exclaimed hysterically. "That's the man who dragged me into the taxi!"

"That's the man, right enough," the youth asserted. "I seen him distinctly under the light."

"It's he!" the girl moaned. "Keep him away!"

"Why he has returned I don't know," the doctor added to the policeman in an undertone; "but I'm certain that's the man I saw leaning out of the taxi-cab."

"You'll have to go to the station with me," the policeman told him, watching for any suspicious movement on the accused man's part.

"May I ask the charge?" the latter enquired.

"An assault upon this young lady," the policeman answered.

"Absurd!" was the contemptuous rejoinder. "My name is Daniel Rocke, and I am well known at the Foreign Office and the British Museum as an interpreter of codes and ciphers. I have just left Professor Mayer's house at the corner of the street."

Then Windergate appeared out of the gloom, followed by one of his henchmen.

"I want this man," he announced. "You know me I suppose, Constable—Inspector Windergate of the C.I.D."

"That's all right, sir," the constable replied, saluting.

The rescued man appeared a little stupefied, but it was not until he was in Windergate's car that he opened his mouth.

"What the hell is the meaning of this?" he demanded.

"A plant of a sort," was the brief reply. "I'll tell you all about it now, if you like. It was the lift girl's story at your ofifice which set me thinking. We're up against our old enemy again, and I tell you he's the most dangerous thing I ever struck, and the cleverest. He's studied you to some purpose, made up so that no two people could tell you apart. Even my own men have been baffled. He came to your office with the intention of killing you, shot that fellow Kasters, thinking he was you, and walked calmly out of the place. You arrived five minutes later, and that lift girl would have sworn till her dying day that you'd only left the flat that time ago. See the idea? Since then you've been shadowed. I guessed something of this sort would happen. We knew you were dining at Professor Mayer's, and that you would be coming this way before long. Londe might have really wanted to abduct the girl. He very likely did, if he could have done it safely. Anyhow, he did it, made up so that any one in the world would have given oath you were the assailant, threw the girl out when he saw that he couldn't get away with her, and made off for safety."

"Where are we going to now?"

"The Marylebone Police Station. We arrested the driver of his taxicab whilst he got out and walked to the corner of the street, and put one of our own men on the box. I told him to drive there without stopping. We've telephoned for constables to surround the cab directly it arrives."

"Why didn't you tell me what was going on, before?" was the somewhat pertinent enquiry.

"Because you'd have spoilt the game by always looking out for him," Windergate answered. "Besides, it was a police job, not yours. We needed you for a stalking-horse. All in your own interests, Rocke. The humour of it is—if it can be called humour—that your other self made advances to the lift girl which you failed to carry out. Hence her visit to your office. She turned informer entirely out of pique."

"Little hussy! But that fellow, Londe—he'll tumble to it, for certain. He'll get out of the cab before it reaches the police station."

"He won't do much good," Windergate replied. "I had two plain-clothes men on motor-bicycles, one each side of the cab."

The other laughed a little bitterly.

"Yours is a regular policeman's game," he scoffed. "I wish I'd known what you were up to. I'd have given you better advice."

"What do you mean?" Windergate demanded.

"I mean," was the contemptuous reply, "that you haven't a man in your Force with half the brains that Londe has. If you think he'll sit quietly in that taxi-cab and step out at the Marylebone Road Police Station, you're more ingenuous than I thought you."

"He hasn't one chance in fifty of getting away," Windergate declared.

His companion glanced out of the window. They had reached the spot which he had fixed upon in his mind.

"Neither have you," he answered, driving the knife which he had suddenly drawn from his pocket, between the detective's shoulders.

Daniel Rocke was Windergate's first visitor. The latter was sitting up in bed, wasted but convalescent. The two men shook hands in a somewhat chastened manner,

"The lunatic's done us again," Windergate groaned. "Nearly did for me too. A fortieth part of an inch would have settled my hash."

"You had no suspicion?" Daniel asked curiously.

"Not the slightest. I was as certain that it was you who strolled up and whom I took away from the crowd, as I am about you at the present moment. You see what happened? Simple, but amazingly daring! Just the sort of thing a lunatic would have planned! Give me a tablespoonful of that whisky and some soda water, Rocke. I'm allowed it three times a day."

Daniel measured out the whisky generously, added the soda water, and passed it to the invalid, who swallowed it at a draught.

"The fellow had been shadowing you for a fortnight," Windergate proceeded. "He must have known you were dining at the Professor's, must have known what time you were likely to leave. He was in earnest about the girl, all right. When he found he couldn't bring that off, he made for his taxi. He saw that the driver had been changed, and tumbled to the whole thing, of course. Told him to stop at the Professor's and wait for a few minutes. We'd ordered the chauffeur to go anywhere he was directed first, so long as he wound up at Marylebone Police Station. Two motorcyclists were to pick up the taxicab at the corner of the Avenue, as they did. Londe walked up that flagged path to the Professor's, and hid behind a shrub. In five minutes you were out. You thought the Professor had sent for a taxi, and stepped into it at once. They drove you to the police station, as per instructions. Londe comes out of the garden and sees the little crowd round the girl. He also sees me hanging round with the car. He bangs the Professor's gate behind him and walks casually up to us. It was the most audacious thing I have ever heard of. He gambled on my interference, and of course it came off. We talked together on the way to the station, and, believe me, I never doubted him for a moment. His voice seemed a bit thick, but I knew you had a cold. Then, all of a sudden—well, you know the rest."

"The first taxicab man was our greatest disappointment," Daniel observed. "His story turned out to be perfectly true. Londe picked him up in the Strand—did a bit of character-judging, no doubt—and offered him a tenner to do as he was told for the rest of the evening. The man had never seen Londe before, and was no help to us at all."

Windergate lay for a few moments with half-closed eyes.

"I suppose no one saw Londe get out of the car?" he asked presently.

"Not a soul," Daniel replied. "The driver had no idea there was anything wrong until he drew up at the police station. Londe disappeared like a stone thrown into a mountain tarn."

The nurse put her head in at the door. Daniel rose to his feet.

"Fine violets you've got there, Windergate," he remarked, glancing at the bowl by the side of the bed.

Windergate smiled somewhat sheepishly.

"Very kind of Miss Lancaster," he murmured. "She is coming to see me in a day or two."

Daniel nodded and turned away a little abruptly.

"Well, good-bye, old chap!" he said.

"One word more," Windergate begged, leaning a little forward in bed. "Only a word, nurse. We are going to get him, Rocke. Mind, that's a certainty."

Daniel opened his lips. The nurse intervened in peremptory fashion. She had seen the flush of colour in her patient's cheeks, and the hard light in his eyes.

"Not another word," she ordered—and was obeyed.

Daniel was curiously engrossed when he left the hospital. There was, indeed, plenty for him to think about. Somewhere, probably close at hand, this lunatic fiend was still at liberty, planning, perhaps, more horrible deeds, always waiting with stealthy zest to pit his cunning against the brains of the man who sought to compass his capture. There was danger lurking for Daniel at any street corner, in any lonely place, whilst this man lived. The drama of it was overpowering. Daniel found himself visualising the agony of the man, driven to madness by the constant though merciful use of his knife upon the screaming hordes of mangled sufferers. There was something terrible in the thought of that slowly growing madness, the sleepless nights, the visions and fancies, the slow slipping away of reason—the man's soul perished, his whole being obsessed with horrible desires.

And side by side with the memory of these haunting horrors, there crept into Daniel's brain a curious depression, engendered by the sight of that bowl of violets and the sick man's self-conscious acknowledgment of them.</story>