<story title="A ROUGH-HOUSE AT ELSTREE" date="1938">
WITH my hairbrushes still poised in mid-air, I listened for a moment to the timid yet imperative knock at my closed door. As the flat which I occupied in the Milan Court was on the topmost story and one of the smallest in the building, it was very seldom that I received unannounced visits.

"You wish to see me?" I asked the young woman whom I found in the corridor.

"If you please, Captain Lyson."

She looked nervously over her shoulder. She was breathing quickly and gave me the impression of having hurried from the lift, which came no higher than the floor below. I ushered her into the sitting-room.

"Would you think me crazy if I asked you to lock the door?" she ventured.

"No—only indiscreet," I answered, smiling. "Don't ask me to do that. Miss Hansom. I can assure you that you will be perfectly safe here."

"You know who I am?" I nodded.

"You are Miss Christine Hansom, aren't you?"

She produced a letter which, at her request. I opened and read. It was from a well-known Scandinavian in New York.


"My Dear Lyson,

"The bearer is Miss Christine Hansom, an acquaintance of mine, but well known to several of my friends in the Nordic Embassy here. She is going over to play in a film in England where she has no friends. If you can do anything for her, you can rest assured of my gratitude.

"Ever yours.

"Charles Korvald."

I glanced up at her curiously. She was very good looking in a statuesque northern European fashion, with large blue eyes deeply set, a profusion of golden hair, and a graceful figure, rather on the flowing side.

"I see you with all your people in the Grill Room sometimes," I remarked. "I don't think I have met anyone in your show, though."

"They are all strangers to me," he confided. "Some of them—Phillip Dean, for instance—are quite well known, but none of them was at Hollywood when I was there."

"Tell me," I ventured, "are you in trouble of any sort? How, can I help you?"

"Just by talking pleasantly, and looking human," she replied "I have lost my balance. I have nerves. I am frightened."

"But what of."

"I shall tell you, perhaps. Not now—but soon. This is the strangest show I have ever been in. The author has put a great deal of money in it and he does all the direction himself."

"Who is he?" I asked.

"His name is Osmond Lann," she confided. "We are doing a film version of his novel 'The Great World.'"

"Good?"

"Very clever," she admitted doubtfully. "Very difficult to understand. especially the way we are doing it—like pieces in a jig-saw puzzle. Captain Lyson, I do not think that I like authors."

"No great catch, are they?" I agreed.

"I think," she went on, "that Mr. Lann tries to be kind, but half the time is so vague. He treats us as though we were all school-children living in another world."

"Sounds as though he were inclined to be a poseur," I suggested. "Now, tell me why you were trembling when you came in—why you still look so frightened. If you need my help in any way, I must know a little more about it."

She sat quite still for a few moments.

"You will think I am silly, I know," she said presently. "I am beginning to have a sort of nervous dread of Mr. Osmond Lann."

"Well—go on." I invited.

"Mr. Lann is his own director, producer, and everything. It is he who hired the studio. It is he who engaged everyone—even the cameramen. Nearly all the scenes are indoor ones, and when we begin a set every door in the studio is locked."

"I don't know much about the making of films," I observed, "but is that unusual?"

"It has never been done before in any picture I have made," she assured me. "Then there are other things. We have all had to take an oath of secrecy that we will divulge nothing of the character or the plot of the scenario and, besides that, there is a clause in our contracts that anyone whose work is disapproved of by Mr. Lann can be dismissed at once with a month's salary."

"Sounds a little arbitrary."

She nodded.

"It is wicked. We signed because we never dreamed that it would ever happen, and the salaries are quite good. Now I come to the great trouble. Pour days ago I was called on the set to do a scene with Phillip Dean. When it was finished. Mr. Lann asked Phillip to drive home with him as he wished to discuss his rendering of the part. That was four days ago. We have never seen Mr. Dean since."

"Dismissed?"

"For incapacity, Mr. Lann told us. Worse still—he is going to play the part himself."

"I don't think I like your author director," I admitted, offering her a cigarette.

She helped herself gratefully. Her manner was becoming more normal.

"His behaviour to the rest of us," she went on, "is kindness itself, but that does not alter the fact that we are all terribly afraid of him. There seems to be no escape at any hour of the day. He engaged that large round table you may have noticed in the Grill Room on the day we started, and everyone is expected to dine there at night and discuss progress."

"When exactly was Phillip Dean sent away?" I asked.

The fear was back again in those great eyes. Her voice shook as she answered me.

"Last Tuesday, after we had finished at the studio. Mr Lann took him off in his own car and we have not seen or heard of him since."

"Do you mean to say that he hasn't come to say good-bye to any of you?"

"He has not been near one of us." she assured me.

"Has Lann referred to his disappearance in any way?"

"Mr. Lann came by very late for dinner that night. He just said that he had made arrangements with Mr Dean to relinquish the part, that Mr. Dean was going back to America, and that he intended to take over his part and play it himself."

"Is he capable of doing that?"

"I suppose so. He is an actor."

"I hate to seem inquisitive," I ventured after a moment's pause, "but if you have come here with any idea of asking my help, I must understand a little more about the situation. What is your role in the film?"

She half closed her eyes and moved uneasily in her chair.

"A horrible one. The spirit of sexual evil brooding over the world: a sort of unconverted Mary Magdalene. That is all I can tell you."

I could feel her eyes studying me furtively. I think that at that moment we both had the same thought. Whatever faults Osmond Lann might have possessed, he had shown at least a flair for one part of his profession.

"Have you an agent at all?" I asked her.

"Not now. Mr. Lann will not deal with agents. He drew up the contracts himself."

"He pays good salaries?"

"He pays me two hundred and fifty pounds a week," she confided. "I do not know what the others are getting, but they seem quite satisfied. My salary would be all right," she went on, "but I am kept here as a prisoner. I am not allowed to see even a newspaper man. Mr. Lann possesses the most charming manners in the world, but is rude to anyone who comes down wanting to interview me. How can he possibly expect to produce a film in the West End and defy the Press?"

"It does seem rather a problem," I admitted. "May I think it over for a day or two? I will make a few inquiries about your chief, and see if I can discover what has become of Phillip Dean."

"That is just what I want you to do." she agreed eagerly.

"There is just one more question I must ask. When you came in here you were shockingly nervous. You even wanted me to lock the door. Nothing that you have told me about the situation could account for this."

"Captain Lyson," she confessed, "it all comes from one thing. I am frightened of Mr. Lann."

I looked at her thoughtfully.

"What are you frightened of?"

"The way he got rid of Phillip Dean, for one thing."

"There may be a reasonable explanation for that," I pointed out. "What else?"

She was clutching the arms of the chair and I could see where her knuckles were white with the tension. Her eyes almost frightened me.

"Look here," I said, "I will put it bluntly. Does he pay you attentions?"

"He is all the time." she answered feverishly, "on the borderline. In our work, Captain Lyson, we gain experience. We learn how to ward off that sort of thing. I am all the time on my guard, but I never know. Sometimes he is just as kind and thoughtful as a man could be, and he does not seem to have a wrong idea in his head; at other times he seems torn—distracted. I am afraid to be in the room with him. He looks at me as though he were battling with hideous temptations. When he has left me sometimes, I have almost had hysterics, and I do not want to lose this job. I have never had a chance to save a penny before, and here I spend nothing. I want to finish the film, Captain Lyson. After that, if I can get work from anyone else in the world. I never want to see Mr. Lann again. Listen!...is not that—someone outside?"

She leaned forward shivering in her chair. There was a distinct rap at the door.

"Do not answer it!" she begged. "Perhaps he will go away."

"Please don't be absurd," I remonstrated. "It is probably my evening paper—a telegram—anything. Of course I must answer it."

I threw the door open and found myself confronted by the man whom I was expecting to find there.

"Captain Lyson?" he inquired pleasantly.

"That is my name," I admitted.

"My name is Lann," he told me. "Osmond Lann. I am running a small film company over here and I have come in search of one of my lost treasures."

Christine Hansom seemed to have quite recovered her self-possession. She picked up her bag and fur and came across the room.

"I have not strayed very far," she said. "I was just coming down. I am not late, am I?"

"Only a few minutes," he assured her.

"Miss Hansom brought me a letter from a friend in New York," I observed. "Charlie Korvald. You know him, I expect."

Lann was standing now full in the light. I found him younger than I had expected, and without the slightest trace of anything sinister in his manner or speech. I could scarcely keep a smile from my lips when I thought of Miss Hansom's apprehensions.

"By name only. A very clever writer, I believe, and an excellent critic."

"Will you both have a cocktail with me before you go in for dinner?" I invited. "I should like to hear something about your film, Mr. Lann."

He accepted my invitation without demur. We descended to the Grill Room lounge and sat at a round table.

"I am very happy to have met you. Captain Lyson." he said, "but I would rather not talk about the film. When I am ready. I will invite you gentlemen of the Press to come and see it, and you can make me happy or miserable as you choose; but what they term the gossiping sort of publicity—little paragraphs, hints at the plot—doesn't interest me. Most of my company think I am mad! I suppose that is because they want to see their photographs in the papers."

He indulged in a humorous but not altogether pleasing grimace.

"Well. I shan't be able to stop it for very long." he observed.

The cocktails were brought, the clock struck eight soon afterwards, and Lann, with a glance at Christine, rose to his feet. He turned to me with an apologetic smile.

"You will excuse us if we hurry off, Captain Lyson. We shall meet again, I hope..."

They left me with an uneasy sense of her condition. She seemed to me either like an over-worked genius on the point of a breakdown, or a woman who was walking hand in hand all the time with a mortal terror. As usual, when thoroughly puzzled, I made my way across towards the armchair at the Grill Room entrance where Louis, the presiding genius of the place, was installed.

"Louis," I asked, "do you know anything about Mr. Osmond Lann's film company?"

"Nothing personal," he answered. "Here is one of my most distinguished patrons, however, who does. Captain Lyson—Mr. Norman Slay..."

A small man, pale but with the face and expression of a world conqueror, shook hands with me.

"You want to know about Osmond Lann and his film?" he inquired crisply.

I pleaded guilty to a certain amount of curiosity. He plunged at once into speech.

"Osmond Lann," he declared, "is a brilliant writer, if anything a little too imaginative for our job. He showed me the script of a film not long ago. I couldn't touch it, but then I buy and produce films to make money. This had all the gifts except the money touch. He always threatened to produce it himself. That's what I believe he is doing. He may make a great success. He works on original lines. He keeps his company locked up. He has contrived to create an atmosphere of mystery around everything he does.

"What I saw of his manuscript was beautiful—but blasphemous. He is capable of making it the greatest film that has ever been shown. He is up to all sorts of funny stunts and he changes his cameramen continually. He works at all manner of odd times. If he makes the huge success he may, he is capable of dividing the whole of the profits—and they might be millions—amongst his cast. If he fails, he is just as capable of shooting the lot of them!"

"One more question," I begged. "The girl—Christine Hansom, is he the sort of man—"

"For heaven's sake, no!" Slay interrupted. "Never heard of him looking at a woman in my life. Lives in the clouds. That's why he will either make the greatest triumph that was ever known, or come the greatest cropper."

He moved on with a farewell nod. Louis was welcoming some new arrivals. I turned away rather reluctantly, summoned a taxi and drove to my club. I was just cutting in for my second rubber when the page-boy called me to the phone. It was a message from Julie, the charming daughter of my friend Louis. Her father wished to see me before he retired for the night. No more bridge for me! I was in his sitting-room just in time to join him in a final whisky-and-soda and cigarette. He waved Julie away.

"I have myself," he confided, "developed a slight interest in that strange film party of whom you spoke. My friend Monsieur Bland, from the reception office, came across to see me this evening. He was somewhat perturbed at the sudden and unannounced departure of the leading man in the company."

"So was Mademoiselle Christine," I observed. "The whole thing seems most extraordinary.'

"That he had rushed away to catch a boat without taking his clothes with him, or returning at all to the hotel after he had the studio, was in itself barely credible." Louis went on, "but that he should have left behind him, of all things in the world, his passport that one fails wholly to understand."

"It determines the situation, anyway," I replied, genuinely startled.

"Fortunately," Louis continued, "the young man seemed to have a passion for being photographed. A dozen of his pictures are in a neat packet in your room. It would be advisable if you spoke with your friends at Scotland Yard...Something is wrong with those people, Captain Lyson. They dine together night after night, but they never laugh. I have had my eye on them for some time. I do not trust a company of people who never even smile."

I rose at once to my feet.

"Sharnbrook?" I suggested.

"It would be as well." Louis agreed, as we shook hands.

I discovered that Inspector Sharnbrook, who was responsible for the department at Scotland Yard dealing with disappearances, was on night duty, and within an hour the photographs and particulars of Phillip Dean's departure from the studio, in company with Osmond Lann, were in his hands. Afterwards, I returned to my apartment, read for a time in my sitting-room, and went unwillingly to bed. Three times I woke in the night fancying I heard once more that timid rap at the door. Each time I looked out on to an empty corridor.

Morning arrived. There was no news. From the concierge I learned that the whole of the Osmond Lann film company had started out for the studio at eight o'clock. Louis was a hopeless person until luncheon-time, so I left him alone. I had some work to do, but I neglected it. I went round to my club and played squash for an hour and a half with the professional; then I came back, had a shower-bath, changed for lunch, and descended to invite Julie for an aperitif. I found her almost dancing with excitement. She pressed her autograph-book into my hands.

"Last night," she exclaimed. "I had the courage! That strange film company! I only knew yesterday that it was Christine Hansom and Osmond Lann. I was talking to father when they came out and I had the courage." she repeated "I asked for their autographs. Mr. Lann—oh, how handsome he is! He signed his name.

"You shall see it here. Afterwards he stood talking with father, and Miss Hansom pretended that the light was bad and she made me follow her back into the room. Her fingers were trembling so that she could scarcely hold the pen. 'Please do this for me,' she begged. 'Tell Captain Lyson to wait in his apartment for a message from me all to-morrow afternoon. He must not leave—all the afternoon and evening, mind.' You will stay, will you not? I promised that you would."

"I shall stay," I agreed.

"Is she ill?" Julie inquired. "She is so beautiful—those great blue eyes. I could look into them for hours. And that gorgeous hair! She is the most exquisite thing I ever saw, but she shivers all the time. I think she is ill. Why does she want to see you? Of course, I think she is marvellous but—I am jealous! ..."

Louis had nothing to add to his earlier report, but I could tell from his manner that he was taking the affair seriously. I abandoned my intention of inviting Julie for lunch, and mounted once more to my room. I lunched there, I took my coffee and smoked innumerable cigarettes. I lit a pipe and read a novel, only to throw the latter away in a few minutes. I searched the newspapers. There was nothing. I tried to write letters—tried and failed. I spent most of the time listening.

Then at last it came—towards late evening—the message for which I had been waiting. Even the telephone instrument itself seemed to reflect the grim forebodings of crisis. Her voice—a rather pleasant voice—seemed utterly changed. Her throat was hoarse like the throat of one exhausted with undue efforts of speech.

"Captain Lyson—you are there?"

"I'm here," I answered. "What has happened? Do you want me to come to the studio?"

"Oh, please—as quickly as you can! I do not know how you will get in. Everyone else has gone. Mr. Lann has just been round and locked all the doors. He is setting a scene. I am afraid—"

"There's nothing to be afraid of," I told her. "I'm coming. I shall be with you in twenty minutes."

"Oh, how wonderful!" I heard her say. "And you must bring—bring help. I think something terrible is going to happen. I am sure that—"

The sound of her voice ended abruptly. There was a stifled cry. I heard a sound as though a door had been slammed. Then her voice once more—very faint.

"Oh—I am afraid!"

After that—silence.

In two minutes I was prepared to leave the place. Once more the telephone rang. I hesitated whether or not to answer it. The seconds might be precious. Reluctantly, however, I snatched at the receiver.

"Lyson speaking. What is it?"

"Inspector Sharnbrook," came the prompt reply.

"Thank heaven!" I gasped. "I was just coming round. Miss Hansom has rung me up from the studio. There's trouble out there. You had better bring men. I'm off to see what I can do."

"But I am up at Epping," Sharnbrook groaned. "Just found Phillip Dean, or what's left of him, poor fellow, tied to a tree in the wood. A horrible business. Ring up Marlow at the Yard, Captain Lyson. Tell him to take a squad along and meet you. I will go straight there myself."

Everything I did, I did mechanically. Marlow was to start within five minutes. I had the idea of taking the stairs in one quick burst, but pulled myself together in time. I might need all the breath I had presently. I took the lift down and hurried to the place where I was allowed to leave my car on the other side of the Court.

Sometimes it seemed to me that I had never driven faster, at other times I was amazed that I was driving so carefully. The lights were just lit and a slight fog was hanging about, but I seemed to get into the by-ways in no time. There was very little traffic. The red lights meant nothing to me. I drove with my accelerator down, crouching over the wheel, deaf to the whistles and the angry shouts which followed me. I remembered my way entirely by instinct. I took the right corner without hesitation, when I am perfectly certain that in a saner moment I should have paused in doubt...

Arrived at my destination, I found myself face to face with a great mass of buildings. The first entrance gates were locked. The porter's lodge was empty. I went on almost to the end of the line of studios before I was able to make my way inside through a space where a fallen wall was being repaired. I passed down the broad drive and pulled up at last in a little pool of darkness under some trees opposite the studio of which I was in search.

The front door, as I expected, was locked and barred. The windows, which looked chiefly into the offices, were nothing but blank sheets of glass. I went up and down the side and the front and found no means of entrance. There was not a soul anywhere about—not a light to be seen. The studio, I knew, was on the ground floor behind these offices, but the way to it was barred by a high wall and a spiked gate.

There was only one means of access to the building that I could see, for a man in a desperate hurry, and that I made use of. I emptied the shells from my revolver, gripped it by the muzzle, and smashed the nearest window, using my coat to deaden the sound. Then I scrambled into the deserted room, and paused for a moment to listen and take breath.

The outer door into the passage was locked; but from the inner office there was a flight of stairs leading upwards. I ran up these, slipping back the shells into my gun, and with my torch in my left hand. On the landing, which I reached in half a dozen strides, was a mercifully open door. I turned down a corridor to And at the end of it only a fire escape.

Then for the first time I had evidence that I was not alone in the building. Only twenty or thirty feet below, from the large projection room of the studio, I heard the smooth, pleasant voice of Osmond Lann. I stood rigid—listening.

A curious sense of unreality crept over me. I had either gone crazy, or this was some dream. Lann's voice, scarcely raised above its usual pitch, was clearly audible. He was giving some quite ordinary stage directions. His tone was kindly and unflurried. There was no suggestion of anything unusual going on.

"Sorry to trouble you again," I heard him say, "but you must grip that goblet of wine you have there a little more naturally—greedily—so. When I put on this record, remember—you must all stop drinking and look up. The music astonishes you. Your quarrels are all forgotten. There must be a look of reverence in your eyes as you lean forward."

There was a murmur of voices from below. I crept towards the iron rail of the fire-escape and descended some dozen rungs. I was now in what seemed to be an empty loft, but with an open space in the wall. I groped towards it and in a moment found myself looking down into the main studio where, scarcely a dozen yards away, the strange business of making a film in comparative darkness seemed to be in progress.

Creeping cautiously a few inches farther forward, I could see ten or twelve men seated at a rough trestle table. Something about their grouping seemed to me curiously familiar.

It was more like a dream picture than anything I had ever seen. Every one of the men was wearing the strangely-fashioned clothes of thousands of years ago There were loaves of bread upon the table, and great earthenware jars of wine. Osmond Lann, in a long cloak of brown wool, one end of which was thrown over his shoulder, was moving up and down, changing the position of one man, rearranging the flowing robe of another, refilling the glass of a third.

Ail this I saw only by straining my eyes, for the sole illumination came from a single lamp in the middle of the room. The two great cameras on their stands were both out of use. The room seemed cold and dead The only other article of furniture in it was a wooden couch covered all over with bundles of sacking.

"Remember," I heard Lann say, "you wake from a drowsy slumber at the sound of the music. The fumes of the wine are still with you, but when you hear the music you forget...Just as you are, then."

He crossed the floor with long, graceful strides, selected a record and placed it upon an opened gramophone. While he was bending over his task, one of the figures at the table half rose to his feet.

"Mr. Lann!" he called out.

Lann swung round, and I seemed to see his frame stiffen. I had the idea that he was angry His voice was severe and stern.

"There is to be no speech." he said

"But I ask you, sir," the man continued, "what is the use of this: grouping and rehearsal, when there is no camera going and no lighting? You must forgive me if I say that it seems like waste of time We are all of the same mind."

There was an uneasy murmur from the others, and for the first time I realised that they were under the influence of some sort of dope, for their voices were thick and confused.

"You must leave all this to me," Lann begged in a tone of gentle persuasion. "I wish to have this picture in my mind. Presently we shall do it to the hiss of the cameras and with the lights burning you up. This is more the real thing we are rehearsing. That will be the artificial."

"But—"

This time there was a curiously menacing note in Lann's voice.

"Silence!" he ordered.

The music had begun to steal into the place, the strangest music I had ever heard, the fervent, supplicating voices of human beings in agony, with an undernote of raw, uncouth chords melting now and then into harmony. Lann listened in the attitude of a man well pleased, then he turned towards the switch. More lights flashed out into the room I realised instantly what I had already suspected. Those eleven figures seated at the table were helpless. They were lolling in every conceivable pose of abandon. The coarse tablecloth was stained with spilt wine. Two of the jars had been overturned and from one the wine was still dripping. Lann moved his head gently as though in approval.

"That's good," he said. "It is very good indeed. Now be careful. Let there be no speech."

He turned his back upon them, moved towards the wooden couch, stooped down and flung away the coverings. It seemed to me that there was blood in my eyes as I dug my nails into the soft partition by means of which I was supporting myself. Christine Hansom was lying below me bound with cords to the side of the couch! As the lights flooded the room her cry of agony drowned even the swelling crescendo of the music.

"Let me go!" she shrieked. "Will none of you help? He means murder! Are you cowards, you others?"

The man who had spoken to Lann staggered to his feet, only to fall in a heap across the table.

"It's this beastly muck he's shoved down our throats!"

There was an uneasy sense of movement and more groaning. Two or three of the men at the table struggled up, only to collapse again. Lann looked round at them reproachfully. He was curiously and completely isolated.

"Silence!" he ordered. "This is the critical moment. Let no one interfere!"

He turned his back upon them, and thrusting his hand underneath his gown drew out a long knife. Christine's cry of horror rang through the building. I leaned forward into space, holding the partition with my left hand.

"Lann!" I cried. "If you don't drop that knife, I'll shoot!"

He turned and faced me without the slightest trace of discomposure Even at that moment there was something beautiful in his expression.

"I cannot see who you are." he said, "but this knife was put into my hand to rob the world of sin! Sin lies there bound at my mercy. Whoever you are—would you choose to have the world set free from sin, or pass on to the end in names and misery?"

"If you touch that woman," I warned him, making a fierce effort to imitate his self-possession, "I will shoot you dead where you stand. You're mad. Lann! Try to remember that's a live woman there! Just for a moment come back to earth. Listen to the truth. You're a madman in a world of sane people! If you touch her you will hang!"

He smiled at me tolerantly, with very much the air of a grown-up listening to a fractious child. I fancy myself as a shot, and I took care that my bullet was only a foot from his head. He never even winced. The echoes of the discharge seemed to fill the place. The smile remained upon his face.

"The next one will be in your heart!" I warned him.

Still that smile, but this time there was a curious gleam of cunning in his eyes. He moved to the other side of the couch, dropped on one knee and leaned over the woman by whose body he was now more or less shielded. The knife was glistening in his hand, and slowly creeping higher.

Outside the studio it seemed to me that there was a confused babel of sound. I called out at the top of my voice for help. I looked below and I was afraid. I sent another bullet through the roof. One of the men from the table had risen to his feet and struggled across the floor, but he fell to the ground groaning. The knife had reached a steady position, and it seemed to me that I could see the fire in the man's eyes, see him stiffen himself for the blow. I realised then that it was useless to wait. I must take my chance. I stretched out my arm and fired...I knew that my finger had never faltered, but a moment of madness seized me, too. I heard the sound of Lann's cry of agony and it was like music; but it came too late. I had taken the risk of my twenty-foot Jump, and the building seemed to be falling in upon me.


When I opened my eyes, Sharnbrook and I seemed to be the only people in the studio. I took a long gulp from the flask he was holding towards me.

"Where's everybody?" I gasped.

"Eleven doped men I have had to send to the hospital for the moment," he confided. "Miss Hansom is sitting in the car outside. It took Marlow and three men to get Lann out of the place. He is screaming mad—must have been coming on for years."

I looked upwards at the broken boarding.

"Pretty good jump, that, Sharnbrook," I said, struggling to my feet.

"It was a mighty good shot," he replied with a grin. "Clean through his forearm! Come along—this way."

A waft of fresh air in the passage made a new man of me. I could even wave my hand to Christine Hansom, who was leaning out of the opened window of the limousine. I still felt, however, like a man on the fringe of delirium.

"I drove down here in seventeen minutes," I told Sharnbrook, clutching at his arm. "I shall have a dozen police summonses in the morning!"

"We'll take care of those," he promised.</story>