<story title="THE MAYOR OF BALLYDAGHAN" date="1938">
IN view of the many curious adventures for which his unique appointment was largely responsible, Louis has asked me to explain exactly how it came to pass that he was first placed in that very exceptional position.

In 1914, after seven years' service in London's most famous Grill Room, he threw up his very lucrative position and departed for France. In 1919 he limped back from the war with two crutches and many medals. He limped as far as Paris and looked enviously at the gay scenes in the cafés, and thought that for him all that was ended. Later he returned to England and presented himself at the Milan.

"I have called because you asked me to, sir," he said to Sir Edward Rastall, chairman of the company. "There is nothing I can do for you. though. A maître d'hôtel on crutches could scarcely get through an hour's work a week."

Sir Edward took him by the arm and led him across the court to the Grill Room entrance. It was five o'clock in the afternoon, and the place was empty. Louis, who had turned his head away as he drove up in his taxi to the front entrance of the hotel, looked sorrowfully at that fascinating wilderness of white linen and sparkling glass.

Every one of those private corners, vantage places from which one could see and not be seen, and those other more flamboyant tables plumped down in full view of everybody, mostly in demand by the fair sex, brought their own peculiar memories. If he had been alone, his eyes would soon have been dim.

"Louis," his companion said, "do you know why we thought you worth two thousand a year to us before the war?"

"Because I was reasonably good at my job, I hope, sir." the maître d'hôtel suggested.

"That, of course; but there are hundreds of others who are good at their jobs. You had what we thought a flair for placing your patrons. You see all those tables? It would take a diplomat to deal with the streams of people you had to deal with, to offend no one and please those who were worth pleasing. You did it, Louis. I have watched you sometimes—the plan in your hand, a speculative look in your eyes, a welcoming smile always there. You never made a mistake. Then, of course, just before the war the other thing came. You began to be a useful man for your adopted country, long before the first shot of the war was fired."

"Strange things have happened here." Louis reflected.

"And stranger things may come." Sir Edward commented gravely. "Ii you will turn your head, you will see that we have done away with that ridiculous little bar, and made what seems to be a low pulpit just inside the revolving doors."

"I was wondering what that was for, Sir Edward." Louis acknowledged.

"It is for you, my lad."

"What on earth could I do there?"

"Go on earning your two thousand a year, of course." was the prompt reply. "Every day you will have a fresh plan of the room, and all correspondence with regard to the ordering of tables will be handed to you. You know the weaknesses of every one of our habitues. You will study them and you will know exactly which clients to encourage and which we are better without. You will sit in your easy-chair there, watch the people come in, and seat them at your discretion. They will be satisfied—that is, if we want them to be satisfied—and you will continue to draw your two thousand a year. A few more details later on. You start on Monday.'"

Sir Edward waved his hand and hurried away to avoid what he hated most in life—thanks. Monday morning found Louis ensconced in the easy-chair that later on was to become historical.

* * * * *

I SUPPOSE that I, Charles Lyson, late of His Majesty's Army, and now a freelance journalist, with still more serious interests, was one of the most regular patrons of the famous Grill Room at the Milan Hotel, and I had grown, after the first few days, just as accustomed to seeing Louis in his new position inside the room as I was to receiving that cheerful good morning of the concierge in the hall. This particular morning, however, was the first time that I had ever seen him show signs of agitation.

He held out his hand and arrested my progress into the room.

"You have chanced to notice who is lunching here to-day, Captain Lyson?" he asked in that peculiarly distinct, clear voice of his. It dropped almost to a whisper sometimes, yet it was always audible.

"The usual crowd." I answered. "Indications also that the boat-train from Southampton was in early. Another all-conquering film party, I think."

Louis smiled. It always astonished me that a man with so waxen a complexion and such set features should yet possess so sensitive an expression. Notwithstanding the smile. I knew that trouble was in the air.

"Will you do me a kindness?" he begged. "Walk from here the whole length of the Grill Room and then return, casting a glance, perhaps, at the table set against the far wall on the left-hand side."

Mystified, but with too much confidence in Louis to hesitate for a moment, I obeyed his suggestion. On my return I loitered by his chair. He knew at once that my journey had not been fruitless.

"If you could pay me a brief visit in my room at five o'clock, it would give me great pleasure," he invited.

I nodded acquiescence.

"More like the old wolf than ever." I remarked in an undertone.

"I was looking elsewhere when he entered," Louis confided. "I think that I must have smelt the gunpowder as he passed. I lifted my head and behold—it was he!"

"And Madame?"

"And the whole outfit." Louis murmured under his breath. "At five o'clock then."

I took the hint and moved on. I knew now what had brought the frown to Louis' face, and the look of trouble into his eyes.

The Administration of the Milan Hotel and Restaurant owed much to Louis, the Guardian Angel of the Grill Room, and did their best to prove their grateful appreciation. In addition to his large salary and very considerable benefices, always the recognised blood money of the man who wields the table plan of a famous restaurant—as well as being entrusted with the buying of the choice wines and specialities offered by the establishment—Louis possessed the only small flat on the ground floor of the court, the outside door of which, although few ever knew of its existence, was barely a dozen yards from his daily post of vantage.

It was there that I sought him at five minutes to five that afternoon and found, to my great satisfaction, his only daughter, Mademoiselle Julie Duchesne, just returned from a matinee, smoking a cigarette, and sipping a glass of vermouth.

"Never tell me again that Friday the thirteenth is an unlucky day!" I exclaimed, taking off my gloves and making for the divan upon which she was seated.

"Monsieur Charles," she said, waving me away with a little grimace, "to-day there are to be no frivolities. That dear father of mine awaits you impatiently. I am not to detain you for a single moment."

I obeyed her gesture and passed at once into the inner room. Louis was seated before his desk, and motioned me to the chair by his side.

"Sit down, please, Captain Lyson," he invited. "We were right this morning. The old wolf has come to life. You saw him for yourself."

"Amazing!"

"There is no other word," Louis acquiesced. "For months he lies in his chaise-longue like a lizard aching for the sunshine, breathing feebly, like one for whom life is passing, pale as a ghost, with those hollow eyes of his empty of all light. Then suddenly, where it comes from Heaven only knows, but he hears something. The rustling of a torn treaty destroyed by angry fingers, a cry of triumph from a savant in his laboratory, the clash of threatening voices or perhaps the dull booming of a new gun across an empty plain.

"He raises his tired old head and sniffs. Battle is coming! War is at hand. Thousands may be leaving their homes and marching to fill the cemeteries. His laden ships in this port or that—Heaven knows where—wake to life. His agents are at work. The cheques roll into his bank. The great snowball has started. A few more millions for the old man, a few more thousands of stone crosses in the cemetery."

I listened to Louis in amazement. Never in the fifteen years of our acquaintance had I heard him speak quite so bitterly. Apparently he regretted his emotion, for he shrugged his shoulders and lit a cigarette.

"A waste of time, this," he concluded. "Forgive me. He has come to life again, but he goes still with a price upon his head...Would you mind glancing at this for a moment?"

I stood by his side, looking down upon the plan of the Grill Room.

"The Chevalier has demanded the same table to-night for dinner, and we are to arrange for three people, one, we are given to understand, a most important guest. To that, of course, we have acquiesced with pleasure. He wishes also, however, to reserve the table on either side of him. Our reply has been that number eight, which is the one nearer the main passageway, is at his service, but number six is engaged by a most particular client."

"The particular client?"

"Being yourself."

"With a companion?"

"With the most attractive of the many young ladies of your acquaintance. Understand me, please. You refuse to give up your table. It is a matter of sentiment. I shall have to rely upon you, Jules the wine waiter and Antoine the maître d'hotel, who can only pass backwards and forwards at intervals, to bring me the scraps of information I desire—not for myself, naturally, but to pass on to Whitehall."

I must confess that I felt a lack of inspiration about the affair. A few chance words picked up at a feast presided over by the Chevalier were scarcely likely to lead one far. Louis smiled reassuringly.

"No one expects impossibilities," he assured me. "You have to listen for two things, and two things only—the names of steamers and the names of ports. We have certain information that the Chevalier, during the last twelve months, has purchased and paid cash for three steamers—each one of which has been secretly loaded with guns and ammunition. He is over here now to dispose of them. It is our Job, Captain Lyson, to make his task as difficult as possible."

I helped myself to a cigarette from Louis' box.

"It depends, of course, where they are lying at the present moment," I observed, "otherwise I think it would be difficult for him to move those ships into any port if war were threatened."

"Threatened—no. Declared yes," was the somewhat cryptic answer. "The Chevalier knows every move in the game. He knows every law and by-law. He knows the easiest ports and the impossible ones. There are harbor masters who live upon his dole."

"I will tell you another thing about him if you like," I remarked.

"Yes?"

"He has a voice which one can only describe as flutelike. He seldom raises it above a whisper, and yet If you are near enough you hear everything. I think you are expecting a great deal, Louis, if you believe that what I shall overhear of any conversation to-night will be of practical use."

"It is not only words that speak," he pointed out, leaning back in his chair. "At that dinner there will be the Chevalier, the Comtesse de Roussilon his niece, and a stranger. The stranger will be the man who may buy. Bien. You will remark whether the Chevalier is a man for whom things are going well or whether he is disappointed. You will make your own comments, too, upon Madame's attitude. Something may be learnt from the stranger, who, if he is of the nationality I suspect, is not likely to be so skilled as the other two in concealing his feelings. In addition, do not forget that the name of a port, the name of a ship, the make of a gun—any one of those—may serve to light the way. It is only by piecing together small things that one is able to attempt the great coup."

"You are a genius, Louis," I acknowledged. "Dinner will be?"

"At eight o'clock."

"But wait," I begged him, as he stretched out his hand for one of his crutch-like sticks. "I have not an unlimited acquaintance among trustworthy young women with personal attractions. How do I know—"

"I thought that would be it," he interrupted with a pleasant smile. "Fortunately, you are one of the few men in the world whom I can trust. I think that if you approach Julie you will find that she has no engagement for this evening. She has also very good ears and a sound idea of the game."

"The affair," I admitted cheerfully, "begins to present a more attractive appearance."

The service of dinner that evening was rather more than half accomplished when my high spirits and my appetite simultaneously waned. The sickly coils of a grim suspicion had strangled both. I waited for a safe moment, then I leaned across towards my vis-à-vis.

"Julie," I confided, "I have a fear."

"And I, too," she agreed. "They suspect us. The Comtesse has twice turned her head. The old man broke off just now in the middle of a sentence."

I took up the wine card and discussed for some minutes with our attentive sommelier the relative merits of a Berncastler Doctor a trifle too young and an older, mellower Piesporter. While I waited for the man's opinion, I glanced once more, casually, but still with an interest I found it Impossible altogether to conceal, at that small party of three at the next table. The heavy, pale-faced man with the black moustache and restless manner, the obvious guest, had glanced suspiciously more than once in our direction. He held his fat white hand too often at the side of his lips when he addressed his host. Madame said nothing unless she leaned right across the table, yet their voices now and then were almost unduly raised. I sighed as I handed back the wine list, and decided in favor of the Piesporter...After all, what did it matter? For once I had failed Louis. All that could be said in our favor was that we had learnt when to close our eyes and ears to a great deal of very tempting misguidance. Avonmouth, Poole—at least half a dozen times I heard the names of these ports whispered. Yet the mist of unreality hung over it all. We were listening for truths that never came...

"Be the holy, but it's himself himself that's found his way to the great city!"

There was a sudden, almost violent change in the atmosphere of artificiality by which we had been surrounded. The voice of the man who had paused at the next table was full of genuine surprise, his heartiness a real thing.

"It's meself that's glad to see ye," he went on, addressing the Chevalier. "'Tis a pity the young lady can't bring a little color into her cheeks down in them hot countries."

There was no necessity for any further disguise on our parts. A dozen people besides ourselves had turned round at the sound of that rolling voice with its not unmusical brogue and, to be honest, mellowed by just the slightest trace of alcoholism.

"Shure, ye never paid us the visit ye promised," the newcomer went on, shaking his head reproachfully at the Comtesse. "We've had a hearty wilcome waitin' for ye but niver a sign o' ye or the ould gintle man. It's threatin' us badly, ye've been."

The Chevalier had shrunk back a little against the wall. The cold fury in his eyes would certainly have driven away any ordinary intruder. The Comtesse began to talk. She laid her hand upon the visitor's sleeve, and his swing round towards her gave us a better view. The man was a stranger to me, but without doubt an original. He must have been six foot three at least and broad—large everywhere—in proportion. His cheeks were crimson, his deep-set blue eyes moist. There were spots of perspiration upon his forehead. He was wearing a roughly made suit of grey tweed, out of shape as though he had been travelling in it all night, and his hair was of that dull shade of flaming red which defies all efforts of tonsorial restraint. The coldness of his reception seemed to astonish him.

"But what's the mather wid me having a word wid the ould gintle man?" he demanded of the Comtesse. "He had plinty to say that last time in Paris, and when he rode round me own bit of a harbor in a motor launch. We have had important doings togither great business that maybe he has niver told ye anything about, Countess. Ye wouldn't have me pass him by without a word?"

"My uncle," the lady explained eagerly, "is Just recovering from a severe illness. He is not allowed to hold conversations with anyone about business.

"Leave this to me, Mr. O'Grady," she begged. "We will go into the hall and listen to the music for a few minutes."

An immense smile broke across the man's face. He looked down at the Comtesse in undisguised admiration. For the first time he lowered his voice and we gathered only the sense of what he said. He passed willingly away, however, with the fingers of his companion resting upon his arm. They turned to the left and made their way towards the foyer. Julie leaned across the table and whispered in my ear.

"I think if I could only change places with the Comtesse for a few moments he would tell me all we want to know," she confided, gazing wistfully after the two departing figures.

I had to be content with frowning my disapproval. The opportune moment for my own intervention had arrived. I pushed back my chair and approached the table which had been the centre of the disturbance. The Chevalier, his face a white arid wan mask, expressionless except for those deep-set steely eyes, in themselves a sea of trouble, had shrunk a little back in his chair, his hands folded in front of him, his long fingers fidgeting nervously with the marvellous black opal, strangely set, in his famous signet-ring. Opposite him, the man whom we had put down as the possible buyer of armaments was tugging furiously at his black moustache and brandishing an oblong strip of paper in his hand. There was a queer, abrupt silence as I presented myself. I addressed the Chevalier.

"Monsieur," I said, "may I beg to recall myself to your recollection? My name is Lyson—Captain Lyson. We met several times in Monte Carlo."

To my surprise, he recognised me at once. No words of description could adequately convey the frigidity of his tone.

"I remember perfectly well," he acknowledged. "What I do not understand is your impertinent interest in myself and my niece."

I felt a momentary sensation of panic, but I crushed it so far as I was able.

"You would have the whole world crowding round your table if they knew who 'you were," I reminded him.

"Why?" he demanded icily.

"I can only repeat what the newspapers have been saying for many years. You are a man of mystery—just the type the man in the street wants to know about. You are supposed to be worth countless millions, and to have sunk nearly the whole of it year by year in buying guns, rifles and the appurtenances of war. War is the great dramatic force of the world.

"Foul melodrama," the Chevalier said, with a thin quiver in his voice.

"Maybe," I assented. "I am a brave man, however, when I am in search of news, and I have the instinct for anything which will attract the masses—the millions who read the Sunday papers. For the last few weeks there have been rumors of war. Here are you away from your beloved villa, out of your invalid chair—here waiting, listening for something or other. Grant me an interview, Chevalier, and you will soon be free of me."

"Very slowly, very gracefully, her eyebrows raised in faint curiosity, the tremor of a smile upon her lips, Madame la Comtesse returned alone.

"So you have ventured to come and talk to this most unsociable uncle of mine, Captain Lyson," she remarked.

"I wanted him to give me an interview for my paper," I told her frankly. "I am afraid I've only succeeded in making him angry."

"Your continued presence," the Chevalier said coldly, "is of course a matter of taste. I have never willingly given an interview to a Journalist in my life, and I never shall. When I leave this room it will be to make a formal complaint to the manager."

"I shouldn't if I were you," I advised him.

"What do you mean by that?" he asked grimly.

"Retaliation," I pointed out, "would be so easy. One, at least, of the newspapers to-morrow morning would be wondering why, with all these mutterings of coming war, you should be found in the grill-room of an hotel—which, although it may be the best in the world, is also a hotbed of intrigue—entertaining the Prime Minister," I added with a little bow to the sallow gentleman with the black moustache, "of a country which is aching to make war, but starving at the same time for the means of making it. And why the sudden appearance of that red faced, smooth-tongued Irishman should have broken up your party—"

There was in the Chevalier's grim visage, as he looked for a few seconds steadily at me, the one desire in life which is unmistakable—the desire to kill. I knew very well that there were corners of the world into which we both had penetrated where hundreds would have been ready to obey his will, and my life would not have been worth a moment's purchase.

"I think," the Comtesse whispered, "you had better go. My uncle is not strong, and he has had enough excitement for this evening."

"My niece is right," the Chevalier assented. "You had better go, young man. You may take your melodramatic trash to any newspaper you like, but I promise you this—the paper that prints it will not last another week. Tell them that when you hand in your copy, if you have the courage. One week. It takes men of courage to go to war; but newspapers can be bought. As for Journalists—"

The Chevalier went suddenly dumb. His lips for a few seconds seemed glued together. The Comtesse touched my hand with icy fingers.

"Please go," she whispered.

Julie greeted me on my return to our table with a smile half amused, half sympathetic. We drank to one another across the table.

"What did you say to make him so furious?" she asked.

I sampled the last glass of the Piesporter and found it as good as the first. I allowed myself one more glance at the adjoining table whilst I was signing my bill.

"I was giving him the Journalistic point of view," I explained. "I am just beginning to realise what that little party means. The arch-butcher of the world, the man who has sunk millions in the purchase of every sort of weapon of destruction, his vis-à-vis the Prime Minister of a country whose rulers are groaning for the means to arm their troops, the most beautiful woman who was ever born in Provence, and a red-haired vulgarian who came and went like an exotic thunderstorm."

Julie laughed gaily, yet underneath it all I knew that she was thinking. Those little lines on her delicate forehead meant inspiration. The sparkle in her eyes remained after the laugh itself had passed.

"I have the great idea, Charles," she exclaimed, rising to her feet. "We leave now. We report progress. You are clever, my friend, but even you have not the brain of the old one. All worth knowing that has passed at that table against the wall attaches itself to the coming and going of the large man with the untidy clothes and red hair. What has she done with him, I wonder, that little Comtesse?"

"We will consult the old one," I agreed.

The pulpit, as everyone called Louis' high-backed easy-chair, was empty. A maître d'hôtel, who had evidently been on the look out for us, hurried up.

"Monsieur Louis has left us for the evening," he announced. "He would be glad to see Monsieur in his room."

We made our way there. Louis was seated at his desk, his crutches leaning against its side, and the small carriage which he used for longer journeys was up against the wall. A directory with a green cover was open in front of him. He closed it hastily on our arrival and replaced it in his drawer.

"Well?" he exclaimed.

"A bad night, Louis," I confessed. "I don't know quite where we went wrong, but somehow or other we gave ourselves away."

"How do you know that?" he asked.

"Alas," Julie intervened, "it was unmistakable. All the time we spoke softly, I made the google eyes at Charles here and he did his best, poor man, to respond. It was not a very good best!"

"I am too sincere," I ventured. Louis frowned slightly.

"I only want facts Just now," he reminded us. "Something gave you away. What happened then?"

"They seemed to change the whole tone of their conversation. They pretended to be whispering, but it was a whisper we were meant to hear. They pretended never to look at us, and all the time we could scarcely fail to see their stealthy glances. The Comtesse would touch the Chevalier's elbow and move her head slightly in our direction. Once she touched her lips with her fingers. It all became too obvious. They wrote down the names of the places and then whispered others so that we could hear. Avonmouth they spoke of oftenest. Plymouth, Poole, Guernsey and Lowestoft now and then. All that we could gather was that there were some ships somewhere which could be moved If the money were forthcoming."

"There was no interruption?" Louis asked. "No visitor to their table?"

"But certainly there was—a queer one, too," Julie replied.

He motioned her to keep silent. His eyes were still fixed upon mine.

"They were accosted by a man," I confided, "whose presence I believe was a great embarrassment to them. This time I do not think they were acting. They hated his coming, and finally the Comtesse took him off."

"You know who he was?"

"I have no idea," I confessed. "He was a big man, dressed in ill-fitting grey clothes and indifferent linen. He had a tousled mass of red hair, a typical South of Ireland face, and a mouth like a bulldog's. Incidentally, he spoke with a strong Irish brogue."

"What was your impression," Louis asked softly, "of the relations existing between this unwelcome visitor and the other three?"

"The guest at the table seemed simply surprised. The Chevalier was furious. The Comtesse a little afraid at first—afterwards all over the fellow. It was she who took him away."

"Where to?"

"I have no idea," I admitted. "They just turned to the left and made their way towards the grand foyer. She had the air of one who was humoring a person whom it was necessary to get rid of. I am inclined to think that his Irish accent and his excitable state were neither of them assumed."

Louis nodded thoughtfully. For some reason or other his attention seemed to have wandered. Even I, who was used to his moods, found his present one incomprehensible. He had the appearance of one who had precipitated his thoughts almost into another world. When at last I broke the silence, he seemed for a moment dazed, surprised to find me waiting by his side.

"I am afraid some way or other, Louis," I confessed, "we made a mess of things. I'm sorry, but there it is. Our little effort at espionage was a failure."

Louis pulled himself together.

"Perhaps not entirely," he began hesitatingly.

"Then let us find out where the Comtesse has taken the man with the red hair," Julie broke in. "We can easily discover that."

I looked expectantly at Louis. There was never anything more definite in the world than his shake of the head.

"For to-night it is finished, Julie," he pronounced. "We will even ask for your adieux, little one. You must leave us quickly, please."

With a fascinating whisk of her draperies, she left the room. Louis motioned to the chair over which I had been leaning.

"Monsieur le Capitaine," he said, "I am sorry if I disappoint you, but this affair to which I have introduced you is finished."

"Have I made such a mess of it as all that?" I complained.

"I will not pay you compliments," Louis replied, "because it is by chance that you have become the man who has moved the mountain. You have involved yourself in a business, however, which is too great for you, and too dangerous. I have been in communication with our Chief. He is on his way down here."

"You mean that you are going to chuck me?" I asked in astonishment. "I have a theory—"

"Keep it to yourself," Louis advised earnestly. "The next step is not far away, but men will lose their lives before it is taken. You are not a militant, nowadays, Lyson. You are one of the most useful members of our circle; but this affair which approaches is one of life and death, and the chances are something like five to one in favor of death. The Chief will know how to deal with it."

This was the time I became obstinate.

"Louis," I argued, "wherever this enterprise may lead, I have a great advantage over anyone else who might be handling it. I am a genuine newspaper man. I am working for my Journal. I am seeking news. If the Chief sends any of his ordinary staff—even the Scotland Yard branch—if they are discovered they have no motive but one, and you know what will happen to them if this is such an affair as I believe it is. I am about the only person who can walk into it without serious risk."

I had given Louis matter for thought. He made no immediate answer.

"You shall plead your own case," he decided. "The Chief is on his way here."

"What—through the hotel—here?" I asked in astonishment.

Louis smiled.

"Not quite. We have several private ways into this room, and there is one by which no one ever travels except the Chief. Do me a service quickly, please. Slip through and close the entrance door to the flat and, If Julie is still about, tell her to go at once to her room—as quickly as possible, if you please."

Within sixty seconds I had passed through the adjoining salon and bolted the door, pushed back the curtain leading to the domestic side of the flat, pointed along it, kissed Julie good-night, and was back again in Louis' study in time to see the left door of the dummy fire-escape open and the real mystery man of the English Secret Service make his unobtrusive entrance.

The newcomer waved his hand and motioned Louis to resume his seat. He looked at me searchingly, but offered no greeting—a fact which caused me no embarrassment because I knew his habits.

"You are Lyson, aren't you?" he said quietly. "I have your record. What about this effort of yours in Journalism?"

"I have found it of the greatest assistance to me in two cases," I replied. "It gives me a definite entree into places where my interference might otherwise cause suspicion."

"It remains in the background as compared with your other activities?" he asked.

"Entirely," I answered.

"Very well," he said. "I understand from Louis' message that you saw something of the Chevalier tonight. Tell me what happened."

I repeated as briefly as possible what I had confided to Louis.

"Did you take particular notice of the man with the tousled red hair?" he asked.

"I did, sir.'

"Do you know who he was?"

"Not yet, sir."

My questioner smiled faintly, then he glanced at his watch.

"You live upon the premises, I understand. Captain Lyson," he said. "Go and pack your bag and return here in twenty minutes. Louis will then hand you your instructions."

"Passport?" I asked.

"You will be crossing to Ireland," was the brief reply. "I always like to encourage the young, Captain Lyson," my Chief went on, with a slight smile. "Your observations of this evening have helped us to decide a very knotty point. You will know all about it a little later on."

He made the smallest possible gesture of his head towards the door. I hurried out. An hour and a half later I was seated in a comfortable corner of a first-class carriage in the Irish Mall on my way to Holyhead.

The man with the tousled red hair and the exuberant manner, who had accosted the Chevalier in the grill room of the Milan, appeared to be a very different person when I made my bow to him about a Week later in the audience chamber of ms official residence in the City of Ballydaghan. He eyed me ungraciously when his secretary ushered me into the room, and merely pointed with his penholder to a chair opposite to him.

"An' what can I be do for ye?" the man whom I had come to visit asked abruptly.

"I sent in my card, sir," I reminded him. "My name is Lyson. I believe I have the honor of addressing Mr. Michael O'Grady, Lord Mayor of Ballydaghan."

"Ye have. What about it?"

"Also," I went on, "Mayor of the Harbor City of Daghan."

He looked at me penetratingly. His eyes were a great deal clearer than when I had last seen him, and his whole appearance was more formidable.

"Well?"

"As Mayor of the Harbor City," I continued, "Your Worship has the right to admit any craft you choose into the special moorings, wharves and docks belonging to the city."

"An' what business is that of yours?"

"I am coming to that," I promised. "You have already admitted and given special moorings to three freight steamers—one English, the Idona, and two Norwegian, the Nordicka and the Katarette. They lie in the inner basin of wharf number fifteen."

There was a dangerous glint in the eyes of the Mayor of the Harbor City of Daghan as he looked across the table. His right hand had strayed into a half open drawer. I knew perfectly well what he was feeling, but I was confident that he would not shoot me until he had discovered what my business was.

"So ye have been spying around me docks?"

I shook my head.

"I found them too closely guarded," I told him. "What I have seen of the interior of wharf number fifteen I saw from a small Moth yesterday afternoon."

The Mayor sighed regretfully.

"I saw ye," he' grunted, "an' if I had had an anti-aircraft gun, it's in the basin ye would have been by now."

"Pity you didn't know," I observed. "The Katarette—one of the Norwegian boats—is full of them."

"Will ye be givin' me a chance to say a few words before the funeral?" the Mayor of the Harbor City of Daghan demanded.

"I certainly shall," I assured him "I want to arrive first at a clear understanding. You have given free harborage, Your Worship, to at least two steamers laden to their utmost capacity with rifles, guns and ammunition, the property of a world-famous speculator, who is gambling with his millions on the probability of a war in a country where a revolution is already in progress."

"An' why not?" the Mayor demanded. "Why should we be botherin' what sort of a cockpit the armament speculators may make of Europe? I am the ruler of these parts, an' I have the right to admit what craft I choose into me harbor."

"Who denies it?" I answered. "I may not come here as a philanthropist, but I am certainly not a critic. If you will listen to me, Mr Mayor, I can save you from a very bitter disappointment."

He looked at me as though I were something he particularly disliked. I knew perfectly well that he would rather throw me out of the room than listen. What saved him and me was a vein of natural shrewdness which triumphed over his prejudices.

"Get on with it," he invited.

So I went on with it. In a very few minutes I had made a full disclosure of that curious array of facts passed on to me by my Chief and the head of M17B in Louis' flat, during those few breathless moments before my rush to Euston.

With every word I uttered, the excitement of my auditor increased. I had finished and he was standing up, with a look of fury on his face and his thumb pressed to a bell-push, when he let me know my fate in a few blasphemous but convincing words.

"If it's the truth ye've bin tell in' me, me lad, it's the high spots ye'll be reaching. But if it's a lie, ye'll be at the bottom of the harbor to-night, and yer own mother wouldn't recognise ye when ye're dragged out."

"It will be the high spots," I assured him.

An hour later,—side by side in a very sinister-looking motor boat, flying an exceedingly official flag, we made our way in and out of the crowded waterways of the harbor to where a single freight steamer—the Nordicka—flying the Norwegian flag, was lying anchored some quarter of a mile from the nearest wharf. I was seated between the Mayor of the Harbor City of Daghan and the Harbor-master. Three of the Harbor Police occupied the cabin.

"Will you refer to your papers, Mr. Mayor?" I asked.

"It's not necessary at all," was the gruff reply. "That's the Nordicka right enough. Well go aboard her."

We shot round her hull to the port side. The gangway had been pulled up. The Harbor-master blew his whistle and the captain, struggling into his coat, made his appearance.

"What do you want?" he demanded.

"I'm the Mayor o' the City," the red-haired man called out. "This is the Harbor-master and those three are guards. We're comin' aboard Let down yer gangway."

The evidences of authority were irresistible. The man did as he was told.

"What's all this?" he asked suspiciously.

"I'm goin' to examine yer cargo," the Mayor said. "It's me property, as ye're well aware. Where do ye suggest we begin?" he added, glowering at me.

I glanced at a packet of papers I was carrying, and we descended into the hold. The place was piled with cases. The Mayor pointed to one.

"Open that," he ordered.

The Captain shook his head doubtfully.

"I am not allowed to meddle with the cargo," he declared.

"Ye'll be in prison in an hour it ye don't," was the savage reply. "Them three men are Civic Guards and they'll give ye hell if ye don't do as ye're told. Here's me Harbor-master, too. Ye won't be disobeying his orders. Whatever's inside them cases is my property. Git on wid the job."

The Captain hesitated no longer. He blew his whistle. The boatswain and two seamen arrived, and in a few minutes several carpenters were at work. The lids of a dozen cases were soon prised off. The contents of every case consisted of a heterogeneous mass of scrap-iron.

"Try the other side," I suggested. The Mayor, who was getting very red in the face, led the way. The same result was arrived at. He held up his hand.

"That's be all," he declared savagely. "Show us the way to yer cabin, Captain."

The cabin was a wooden fracture on the forward deck. The Captain led us there, placed a battle of whisky and some glasses upon the table and indicated seats. The others remained outside in a little bunch. The Mayor helped himself to whisky and pushed the bottle in my direction.

"Did ye know the nature o' yer cargo?" he asked the Captain.

"I did," the other answered. "I am not responsible."

"Ye have yer sailing orders?"

"Got them last night. I am Commodore, and my orders are to swap places with the captain of the Idona and to take her and the Katarette out to sea to-night, at the flow of the tide, on a certain course southward. I am to open papers for further orders at midnight."

"An' what will ye be doin' wid this craft here?"

"She's just got to stop where she is until you have unloaded what may belong to you."

For about five minutes we were entertained by a volume of the most fluent and furious swearing I ever heard in my life. As its conclusion, the Mayor of the Harbor City of Daghan finished all the whisky that remained in the bottle, and called for the launch.

"And where might the Idona be lying?" he demanded.

"On our starboard beam. Shes getting up steam."

The Mayor nodded.

"What might her cargo be?"

"Machine-guns."

"Where was she loaded?"

"Newcastle."

"Now listen to me, unless yere lookin' for throuble and the devil of a lot of it," the Mayor said. "The man that sint ye those orders has no authority in these waters. I have. The Nordicka will stay where she is. The rest o' ye can git to hell out o' here!"

The Captain saluted.

"I'm puttin' a guard on this old hulk," the Mayor went on, rising to his feet. "The rest o' ye quit. That's clear? Come on, me lad," he wound up, turning to me. "That was a blazin' good idea ye whispered into me ear an hour or so ago. We'll see how it works."

We boarded the Idona, which was lying barely fifty yards away. The Master of the Nordicka led us down to the Captain's cabin. The latter, who was an Englishman, gazed at us in amazement.

"I'll be havin' ye know who we are, Captain," the man with the red tousled hair said, belligerently. "I am the Mayor of the Harbor City of Daghan. That's the Harbormaster behind me and we've the Harbor Police there, too. I hear, ye're puttin' out to sea to-night."

The Captain glanced at the Master of the Nordicka in amazement. The latter shook his head helplessly.

"That's true, sir," he admitted. "I am changing over to the Nordicka myself, but the Katarette and the Idona are sailing."

"Hand over the ship's papers," the Mayor demanded. "I am takin' them over to the Customs House me self."

"The ship's papers?"

"Hand them over and no palaver. Yell get them back when I've done wid them," the Mayor promised. "Come on, you lads."

We made our way to the Katarette and went through the same programme. The Captain handed over his papers with obvious reluctance.

"But at midnight," he protested, "they must be here. We're to sail with the tide."

The Mayor, leading the way into the launch, turned round to the Captain, who followed him protesting.

"Here's your Commodore," he pointed out. "He'll lead ye out of the harbor all right, and hell git your papers when the Customs officers have done wid them; but if yell take my advice, yell not hang around here five minutes after mid-night."

We stepped into the launch.

"Git back to the Idona," the Mayor ordered the man at the wheel.

"But what will you do with our papers?" the Commodore demanded.

"Don't ye be wondering about that, me lad," the Mayor told him, as we drew up by the gangway of the Idona. "Here's yer ship. Git ye aboard and git ye out of this—ye and the Katarette—by midnight, according to orders given, and by the divil himself, if ye're here a quarter of an hour after the time, 111 have ye blown out of the water. Come along, me lad." he added, turning to me.

I shook my head.

"I'm going to make a passage on this old tub," I said. "I wouldn't miss the fun for anything."

"'Tis a pity—that. I might git to like ye a thrifle better if ye stopped the night wid me," he added, with something like a grin on his face. "I don't suppose ye've ever had a real drink of whisky."

We shook hands heartily, but I bade him farewell.

I told my story to Louis and the Chief some six or seven nights later. The latter, to whom some of the facts were already known, smiled with grim approval. Louis was a little bewildered.

"Don't you understand, Louis," I explained. "The Mayor of Ballydaghan was to have received the Nordicka laden to the brim with machine-guns, the possession of which would have made him easily the most popular man in the country, as a reward for sheltering the Katarette and the Idona in his harbor until the time when they could have been safely delivered over to the gentleman who was dining the other night. The Chevalier tried to be too clever, however, and though the Idona and the Katarette carried a full cargo of machine guns, the Nordicka had nothing packed away in her hold but a lot of scrap-iron. It is not my place to suggest where the information came from, but M17B has agents, of course, in the Harbor City of Daghan and it was through one of them I suppose, that I received word of what had happened."

Louis was still perplexed.

"But tell me," he asked, "why would a cargo of arms and ammunition be of such value to the Mayor of Ballydaghan?"

"Don't you understand, Louis," I told him, a little impatiently perhaps, "that the Irish are born fighters? Ballydaghan is a city of fighting men. The city is rapidly becoming a harborage for Communists. The increase of their influence in the city is a terrible menace, and the possession of that shipload of arms would mean just the difference between security and danger."

"Ah, but now I understand." Louis said. "But there is one thing more. How did the other two boats put out to sea without their papers?'

"Well, as soon as His Worship realised that he had been sold," I explained, "he went completely mad. He not only ordered the other two vessels out of the harbor they were leaving anyway at midnight—but he carried out a little idea of my own and he made derelicts of them. He confiscated their papers, forced them to leave and, curiously enough, they steamed right into the jaws of a British gunboat, the Hero, who took us into Plymouth."

The Chief smiled.

"I think," he decided, "this young friend of ours almost deserves a pat on the back."

Louis pressed a bell by his side.

"I will give him something which I think we shall all appreciate better," he remarked. "One of the last bottles of my 1899 Veuve Clicquot Rosee."</story>