<story title="TRAGEDY DINED WITH LORD BLUNT" date="1936">
THERE was no doubt but that I owed to Louis, the presiding genius over the Milan Grill Room, my participation in a great many of the adventures which have made the place famous. In the matter of Paul La Fallaise, however, the reverse was the case. It was I who went out of my way to pause at Louis' seat of honour and present him to the celebrated Frenchman.

"You know Monsieur La Fallaise by name and reputation beyond a doubt, Louis," I said. "He comes to London so seldom, though, that he tells me you have never met."

"I have scarcely ever been able to induce Monsieur La Fallaise to lunch anywhere with me except at my club," Nesbit, my editor, and the host of our small party observed.

Louis' little bow was as usual almost perfect. He rose a few inches from his place and his smile of welcome was obviously genuine.

"It is a great honour and a great pleasure to meet Monsieur La Fallaise," he said, "Your usual table is reserved, Mr. Nesbit," he added. "If I might make a recommendation, I would suggest our ortelans with a banana and grape salad, a bottle of our Romanée Conté '21 and a peach omelette with Sauce vieux Armagnac to follow."

We passed on to our table situated in a discreet corner which still commanded an excellent view of the room. Nesbit busied himself in ordering the lunch. Our guest looked about him with interest as he toyed with an apéritif. He was an unusual type for a Frenchman—fair, tall and slim, with a slight brown moustache, pale sensitive face, a delightful expression and a reserved yet very agreeable manner. It was hard to believe that this was the man who, from that bare, sparsely furnished room on the topmost floor of the huge building in which were situated the offices of the great newspaper for which he worked, could be the author of those fierce and brilliantly written articles, a long succession of which had made him almost the dominant figure in French political journalism.

"This meeting pleases me very much, Capitaine," he told me. "I am not quite the hermit Monsieur Nesbit would make me out but I think I have very fixed habits. I frequent only two restaurants in Paris and I come to London so seldom that I feel almost a stranger. Your Louis though— what a type! I hear that he knows more about food and wine than any other man in Europe—"

"And a few other things," I put in.

Nesbit laid down the menu.

"With a melon to start, I followed Louis' advice," he announced. "If he takes the trouble to recommend he is generally worth following."

"Curiously interesting personality," La Fallaise observed. "He seems to have succeeded in preserving the intimacies of the small exclusive restaurant even in this huge place."

"The fellow always was a genius," Nesbit remarked. "Seems a queer idea of the directors to give him that quaint sort of desk and put him in command here but they tell me that he had not been at his job for a month before the whole place was back again as it used to be before the war."

"I shall recall my visit here with pleasure, I am sure," La Fallaise declared. "It is not often in Paris that one eats with such a crowd— such an agreeable crowd, too. These young ladies—they are not so chic perhaps as our Frenchwomen but they seem so happy and carefree."

"Mostly on the stage or films," Nesbit explained. "This is a regular meeting house for everyone in the profession."

La Fallaise smiled. Notwithstanding his silence I knew Paris well enough to guess the trend of his thoughts. Nesbit was busy nodding to acquaintances right and left. La Fallaise, who seemed to be much entertained by the novelty of his environment, talked to me in his pleasant, almost shy manner.

"I have been during the last few weeks," he confided, "to conferences at Amsterdam, Berlin and Rome. It is very seldom that I go so far afield, but the times make it difficult for the sincere writer nowadays. More and more I think we grow selfish for our country's sake. It is well to travel and catch something, if one can, of the spirit of other countries. ... I see very few of my own people here. Americans in plenty. What a benefit for your nation, Captain Lyson, that you have a great twin brother with whom to exchange sympathies."

There were many subjects I would have preferred to discuss with my distinguished acquaintance but already I had come under the charm of his easy manner of speech and compelling personality. I was content to listen to whatever he chose to talk about so long as he went on talking. I listened and I watched him with an equal fascination. He was quietly dressed but with perfect taste. He had succeeded, too, where so many failed. He was wearing a tie of a deep violet shade with his morning clothes, a tie which blended perfectly with his shirt and seemed to indicate a queer aestheticism about the man. I permitted myself to watch his face and his expression as he talked and I found it hard to believe that he was not indeed a practised orator. Yet in the first few minutes of our conversation he had mentioned the fact that he had only three times in his life spoken in public. In France, he told me, nothing is more important than for a journalist to write behind a pseudonym and to preserve his incognito.

"I never go into society," he confided. "I attend no parties or public functions. I belong to no clubs. My circle of intimate friends is as limited as an archbishop's. The advantage of all that, of course, is that I preserve absolutely my independence. I can let the hurricane of our too excitable politics rage around me and then I can write what I feel to be the truth."

"But making so few contacts with outer life," I ventured, "does not that make the task of handing out the truth more difficult?"

He dissented with a faint, thoughtful smile which gave to his face for a moment even a touch of spirituality.

"I know men instinctively," he said quietly. "I have no need to converse with them or exchange ideas. This is in effect one of the few professional visits I have ever paid. I came to see your Lord Blunt at his own request and the request of our President. He has invited me to dine with him to-night. I go with reluctance. It is contrary to my habit and my fixed ideas."

Nesbit moved uneasily in his place. I was perhaps monopolising the conversation or he had some reason for not wishing me to hear the great French writer talk so frankly. I withdrew from the conversation for a time but La Fallaise—it may have been his perfect manners or he may perhaps have been overwhelmed by Nesbit's ceaseless flow of small talk—towards the end of luncheon turned suddenly in my direction.

"To-night with Lord Blunt," he asked. "We meet—yes?"

I shook my head.

"Our great men in the newspaper world," I told him, "are wise in that respect. They keep their underlings away from them. Nesbit has dined in Curzon Street once I think. I have scarcely even met our chief."

"A clever man in his dogged way," La Fallaise remarked, "but prejudiced. He has neither the finesse nor the honesty to become a great politician."

"He doesn't seem to be able to hit it off with your country somehow," Nesbit observed. "He has it firmly fixed in his mind that you all hate us."

La Fallaise took up the subject seriously.

"The average Frenchman," he said, "does not dislike England, If he fails to trust you it is because he does not understand. I ask you as cosmopolitans, not as Englishmen," he went on with a whimsical smile, "is that so wonderful after all? There is not one England, but three. There is the England—the House of Commons—that is to say, the England as she is represented by your statesmen. There is the England which Lord Blunt represents—the England of your press. And there is the England behind it all which really exists—the man in the street, you call it, the little man—yes?—who sometimes I think is inadequately represented in either the parliament or the press. Which is the England who will speak with his country's authority when the moment comes?"

"It is pertinently put," Nesbit admitted. "It is a question you should ask His Lordship to-night. I know what his answer will be because he tore up my last editorial!"

"Nothing could prove better what I always say," La Fallaise declared. "Your press is in the hands of bullies. You will understand both of you I am sure, I do not say this from an egoistic point of view, but if the owner of the great journal to which I chiefly contribute were to alter a single sentence in anything I wrote, it would be the end. The beginning for me, perhaps, of a new life."

"You mean that you would retire?" I asked.

"I have a little boat," our guest confided, "a hamper of books and a small cellar. You would find me a hermit drifting about the waterways of the world. I should be very happy."

"But that time," Nesbit remarked with a smile, "will never arrive."

It seemed to me that during the next few seconds I had a glimpse of another La Fallaise, perhaps the real one.

"Who knows?" he answered a little wearily. "Peace is the one thing most difficult to gather into our lives. Peace—rest without responsibility. It is too much to hope for."

Jules, who had been hovering about, touched me on the shoulder. Nesbit had paid the bill and we were showing signs of leaving. The maître d'hôtel whispered in my ear.

"Monsieur Louis begs that you will not leave without seeing him. It is an affair of urgency."

"In five minutes," I promised.


It was a day, this, of curious irregularities, of slight disturbances suddenly inflated into sinister possibilities. I frankly failed to understand Louis' attitude when I sought him in his room. The cognac, which was his great after-luncheon weakness, stood untasted upon his desk. There were already the stumps of many cigarettes in his ash-tray. His manner seemed to me to be lacking altogether in his usual poise.

"Sit down, Lyson," he invited. "I want just a word with you. To tell you the truth it gave me quite a shock when I saw your companion at luncheon."

"Paul La Fallaise?"

"Yes."

"He was Nesbit's guest, you know, not mine," I explained.

"I doubt whether any Englishman," Louis reflected, "can appreciate what La Fallaise is to France."

"I am prepared to believe anything," I replied. "I never met such an impressive personality."

"He is the underground ruler of my country," Louis continued. "He can make or unmake governments at will. He is never ruthless, never a destructive critic. Every statesman whom he thinks a patriot and deserving of his support can command it and when he gives his support that statesman has nothing to fear."

"I have talked with the man and I believe it. Et puis?"

"I am not happy that La Fallaise should have brought his pen of gold and all his brilliancy to London to the galère in which he appears," Louis confessed frankly. "I have ventured to make an enquiry. I understand that he has come over to confer with Lord Blunt, your great newspaper millionaire."

"And incidentally my master and Nesbit's master."

Louis shook his head.

"It cannot be a good meeting," he said. "If La Fallaise and Blunt meet and La Fallaise convinces himself that the press of this country is governed as it partly is by Blunt, harm will come of it."

I shrugged my shoulders. It seemed to me that Louis was rather wide of the mark.

"How can we help it?" I asked. "It is only by a miracle that La Fallaise and Blunt have not met years ago. Of course your man is an idealist. He has his place amongst the gods, and Blunt—well, we know all about him. But what harm can come of their meeting? If I am any judge of mankind I should say that Paul La Fallaise was above prejudices. He may dislike and despise Blunt. I don't believe it will make any difference. One of the greatest gifts he possesses is the gift of tolerance."

Louis was thoughtful for a moment.

"Tell me," he went on, "I am not intruding into secrets, I trust? Does Blunt give a dinner or a reception for La Fallaise to-night or are they meeting tête-à-tête?"

"It is a dinner of three," I confided, "to take place at Curzon Street. Steele, our foreign editor, is flying back from Hungary."

Louis sighed.

"Steele is an apparently clever man," he said, "and there is no one who understands better the political situation in Europe, but all the same, compared to La Fallaise, he is the knave in the pack."

The telephone at Louis' elbow rang. He took off the receiver and passed it at once to me.

"A call for you, Lyson, put through from your rooms."

An unfamiliar voice addressed me.

"This is Desmond speaking—Lord Blunt's private secretary. You are Captain Lyson?"

"Yes," I admitted. "But are you sure it is I whom you want? Mr. Nesbit and Monsieur La Fallaise have just left."

"I have a message for you, Captain Lyson, from the chief," the secretary continued. "We were expecting Mr. Steele to dine to-night with his lordship and Monsieur La Fallaise. Mr. Steele's plane has met with a slight accident and he has wirelessed that he will not be here in time. His lordship desires you to take his place."

"I shall be delighted, of course," I answered hesitatingly. "But are you sure—"

"Dinner will be at eight o'clock," the secretary concluded calmly. "His lordship wishes you to wear a short coat and a black tie and to arrive a little before that hour at 26 Curzon Street. That is understood?"

"Perfectly," I assured him. "I shall be there."

Louis quite frankly had been listening. As I replaced the receiver he spoke eagerly.

"You are dining instead of Steele?" he exclaimed.

"It seems so," I replied. "I can't imagine why. I scarcely know Blunt to nod to and I have never been inside his house in my life."

"Nevertheless," Louis said with a benevolent smile, "it is the best thing, this, which could have happened."

"Perhaps you will tell me why," I begged. "I call myself a journalist adventurer. There are half a dozen sub-editors who know more about politics than I do."

Louis smiled inscrutably.

"I hope that I am wrong," he said, "but there is just the possibility, a very regrettable possibility, that other matters than politics may come up for discussion before your dinner is over."


At five minutes to eight that evening I found myself drinking a tête-à-tête cocktail in the palatial library of the man whose newspapers just at that time might have been said to dominate the entire English press. I had barely exchanged a half dozen words with him in my life and I was still full of curiosity as to why it had fallen to my lot to fill the vacant place at his momentous dinner party. He hastened to enlighten me.

"My people telephoned to Nesbit for advice," he said, "as soon as we found that Steele was delayed. Nesbit told me that you got on very well with this autocratic gentleman at luncheon so I thought you might carry on the good work—eh?"

"I am only too delighted to be here, sir," I said. "I have never talked to a more interesting man."

"H'm. I call him a bit difficult myself," Blunt observed. "Not that I have had much to do with him. I hate personal contacts but this one could not be avoided. How did you find him? Is he really the bomb-slinger they say he is?"

"In my opinion, sir," I ventured, "there is no living Frenchman who could speak for his country more authoritatively and more honestly and if it comes to that more eloquently than La Fallaise. There are hundreds of thousands of Frenchmen, especially amongst the educated classes, who are content to follow him blindly."

"Inclined to be anti-British, isn't he?"

"I should not say so. I don't think he has that fanatical faith in us as a seafaring and military race that a great many of his countrymen have. Otherwise I think he is just as anxious for our friendship as any of the present government."

That was the end of my tête-à-tête with my august chief, for a few moments later La Fallaise was announced. As he came smiling across the room with outstretched hand I found myself relapsing once more into a state almost of hero worship. His poise and carriage were so perfect, his English so pleasantly spoken, the little gleam of humour in his deep-set eyes so appealing that even our gruff and rather prejudiced host was impressed.

"I am glad you thought it worth the trouble to come over, Monsieur La Fallaise," the latter said, as they raised their glasses to one another. "I was just telling my young friend here that I have never been a great believer in personal contacts but there are times when they do good—clear away a lot of misunderstandings and that sort of thing. So many of your people seem to think that we are a race of hypocrites and so many of our own educated people—before we lowered the price of our newspapers, eh? and got to the masses—used to think of France as a timid nation shivering with imaginary fears."

"A certain amount of hypocrisy," La Fallaise observed, "is inseparable from the tenets of any school of diplomacy just as a certain amount of nervousness is the tribute which our soldiers have to pay for the confidence reposed in them. Take us all round, Lord Blunt, I think we are quite well-meaning and honest, which is just what I imagine you would believe about us if you spent a little more time in our midst,"

The two men were standing side by side and it was in a way a sad contrast. La Fallaise, apart from his intellectual gifts, was of aristocratic stock and showed it. Blunt was an opportunist, shrewd and intelligent, but lacking sadly in tact and poise.

"I spend several months of every year in France," the latter pointed out.

"In our pleasure gardens," La Fallaise reminded him smiling. "We would like to see more of you in Paris, to have you an occasional visitor at the Quai d'Orsay."

"I don't know about that," Blunt said, dragging out a thin platinum watch. "I'm not quite sure that representatives of the press do much good by fussing around too much. Five minutes past eight. What's the meaning of this, I wonder?"

A young man in plain morning clothes came into the room, crossed the floor swiftly and handed a slip of paper to his chief. Blunt read the few lines upon it with a frown.

"All right, Desmond," he said. "Tell them to serve dinner. Gentlemen, I had a surprise for you, a fourth guest who is staying in the house. Detained or something of the sort. We won't wait. We are informal to-night, you see, La Fallaise—dining in my snuggery here."

Two footmen had drawn aside the heavy curtains and we followed Blunt into a smaller room where a round table, beautifully arranged with choice flowers and almost a superfluity of cut glass and silver, stood in the center of the apartment. La Fallaise murmured a compliment upon the scheme of colouring—yellow shades and bowls of yellow roses.

"My housekeeper is rather clever at that sort of thing," our host remarked. "I am—like you, I believe—a bachelor. A nuisance if one entertains much but then I don't go in for that. I like to have a friend or two now and then but that is scarcely what is meant by entertaining nowadays."

It seemed to me at first that La Fallaise was slightly bewildered. His conversation had little of the brilliancy and humour which had made our luncheon memorable. Soon, however, he resigned himself. He listened respectfully to his host's rather trite monologue, maintained a judicious silence whilst Blunt opened up moot points in present-day politics and discussed with flamboyant candour the mistakes of the statesmen of whom he disapproved. . . . The dinner was too perfect to be altogether ignored even by a man of apparently ascetic tastes and La Fallaise, approving of the flavour of his wines and the chef's culinary efforts, had the air of a man settling down to make the best show possible. As a rendezvous for discussion the feast was a failure. As it drew towards its end I felt that Blunt retained exactly his former views as to the one or two vexed questions which had arisen and La Fallaise, dragged into an alien and unsympathetic environment, was simply a dummy at the feast, making no effort whatever to arrive at a closer understanding with his host. I put in a word or two whenever it seemed necessary or advisable, but mostly I occupied myself in studying La Fallaise. He seemed to me to be a little distrait. There were times when he seemed to be looking through the picture-hung walls, afterwards to be listening to the deadened sounds outside with a queer sense of anticipation as though some gift of second sight were warning him of the drama to come. Curiously enough I, too, began to share this spirit of uneasiness. I felt a sudden thrill of apprehension as the dark figure of the somberly clad major domo solemnly parted the heavy curtains and stood respectfully on one side. The woman whom he was silently announcing swept into the room with something of that quiet but incomparable grace which had made her movements famous throughout the world. After the first flutter of surprise, she was easily recognisable and just as easily there flashed into my consciousness a swift, deadly pang of memory. I turned towards La Fallaise. We had both risen to our feet, he stricken with a sudden cold rigidity, I filled with an emotion utterly unanalysable. The woman was smiling at our host. He remained in his chair and motioned to the place opposite to him.

"You have missed Hector at his best, Josephine," he said. "Knew he was making the cuisine for a fellow countryman, I expect. Take your place and we will try and forgive you. Monsieur La Fallaise of your beloved Paris, whom without a doubt you know. Captain Lyson—Mademoiselle Josephine Tabaret. Monsieur La Fallaise is, I hope, a surprise for you, Josephine. They say he hides away from the limelight, but his pen is a match for all my printing presses."

Blunt finished his speech leaning back in his chair, a trifle flushed, a good-humoured proprietary smile upon his face. I, in ignorance, could do nothing but watch La Fallaise in grave discomfiture. The woman was standing perfectly still. The jeweled bag she had been carrying clattered to the floor. Her eyes seemed to have grown larger since she had recognised La Fallaise. I had been through the war and turned over many unhappy pages in the book of life, but I had never seen such an expression of horror as suddenly drained the colour from her cheeks and set her limbs shivering. "Paul!" she gasped.

He was facing her now, apparently perfectly calm but still indisposed for speech. She took a step forward, swayed as though she were in the act of falling, but before I could reach her she had caught at the back of the high chair which the footman was holding for her.

"What the devil is the meaning of all this?" Blunt asked, rising to his feet. "Can't you speak, Josephine? What's wrong?"

I poured out some water and tried to press the tumbler into her hand. It was quite useless. Her icy fingers could have held nothing. She was absolutely deaf and her eyes remained fixed upon La Fallaise.

"You two—seem to know one another," Blunt stuttered.

"I have had the honour," La Fallaise said calmly, "of occupying the position of husband to Madame for some years."

"Lover, I suppose you mean!" Blunt scowled.

There was a brief pause—a pause of cold, frozen silence. No one moved. One of the footmen had stolen from the room. The major domo, who had always presented the appearance of an executioner, was standing in the background. The butler, who had been serving the wines, was still at the sideboard. The woman had buried her face in her hands. One heard the stifled sobs which the rise and fall of her bosom indicated. We were all in those few seconds like posturing models.

"I imagined my wife on her way to America," La Fallaise said. "I learn that she is a guest in your house. In your country, I think, Lord Blunt, you do not fight duels. You will permit me?"

All the time, he had been fingering a ring upon his right hand. He drew it off, leaned towards Blunt and struck him across the cheek. I do not know whether it was abject cowardice or astonishment which kept the latter lying there half out of his chair, his arm raised as though he expected another attack. La Fallaise turned on his heel.

"If there is any answer," he said, "I am to be found at the Milan Hotel."


Louis, too, when he had heard my story, seemed like a stricken man. I found him in his little dining room smoking endless cigarettes, with the half dozen oysters and pint of Sauterne which was his customary supper at this season of the year untouched before him.

"You knew what was likely to happen?" I asked him.

He nodded.

"There was nothing I could do," he said sadly. "I sent to every hotel in London but it was hopeless. She was actually staying in the man's house. La Fallaise had a telegram from Cherbourg. She was supposed to be singing at the Metropolitan in New York next week. She must have flown instead to London."

"It has been an affair of a long time?" I asked.

"Two years. La Fallaise would never have known but for this unholy chance. He lives the life of a hermit. She was with him buried in the country somewhere a fortnight ago. Then see what arrives," he went on with a sudden hopeless gesture. "She passes unseen by La Fallaise or any of you within a few feet of your table at luncheon time. You know nothing. You see nothing. I could count the times La Fallaise has visited London since the war. He chooses this one night to give in to the President's wishes and come across to meet Blunt, and Blunt, who might so easily have told her of the coming guest, kept it for a surprise. Fate!"

"Meanwhile, you had better get on with your oysters and drink your Sauterne, Louis," I told him. "There will be a crowd here from the Opera tonight."

Louis poured himself out a glass of wine and moved a little nearer to the table.

"C'est raisonnable," he sighed. "Mais, mon ami, ce n'est pas encore fini, cette affaire là!"


Curiously enough those words of Louis' were in my mind the whole of the next day. They came repeatedly between me and my work. I found myself wondering what a man of La Fallaise's temperament would do, faced with this situation so essentially a part of the drama of modern life. What was there he could do? I tried to place myself in the same position. Physical force was so impossible. The invocation of the law by a man of La Fallaise's temperament and outlook ridiculous. The subject was still in my mind when in response to an urgent message from Louis I looked in to see him on my return early in the evening.

"La Fallaise has been here," he announced. "He came to see you. I am entrusted with a message."

"He is still in London?" I exclaimed.

"He is still here. He wishes to see you. He is in number 128."

"He took you into his confidence?" I asked.

"To some extent," Louis admitted. "You see, I knew Mademoiselle Josephine Tabaret long before she or the world realised that she had the voice of a goddess, long before the world was at her feet. However, I must not keep you. I told La Fallaise that this was your usual hour for returning and he begged that you would visit him at once."

"I will go, of course," I agreed. "But honestly, Louis, I don't know what to say to him. All day long I have been asking myself that one question—what does a man like La Fallaise do in such a position?"

Louis made no reply. I left him and mounted to number 128 in the Court. La Fallaise opened the door to me himself. He greeted me pleasantly and ushered me into his modest apartment, very little larger than my own. Already, however, with a few flowers and books and a couple of water colours, which I knew that he must have purchased from an exhibition that afternoon, he seemed to have given the place a touch of his own personality. He rang for cocktails and waved me to an easy chair.

"Captain Lyson," he said, "I have very few friends in London or if it comes to that—in the world. There is no one of whom I could ask the service I am asking of you."

"I am all the more flattered," I murmured.

"Will you be the bearer of a message from me to Lord Blunt?"

"Of course I will," I promised.

He unlocked a despatch box which was lying upon his writing table and drew out a letter. He passed it over to me.

"Do you recognise the handwriting?" he asked.

"Without a doubt," I replied. "It is the handwriting of Lord Blunt."

"Read it," he enjoined.

I obeyed. When I had finished, my cheeks were burning. Blunt was after all an Englishman and by some means or other had found his way into a dominant position.

"I have read it," I said. "You cannot expect me to understand."

La Fallaise shrugged his shoulders.

"That letter," he confided, "has reposed in the archives of the inner sanctuary of the French political secret service headquarters for four years. It cost the man who secured possession of it four millions, the lives of three men, the reputation of a dozen others and ultimately his own life. It tells its own story. It accounts for that long series of bitter attacks with which the Blunt press has done its best to destroy the entente between our two countries. What do you suppose, my friend Capitaine Lyson, will be the result if I publish that letter and write my next week's article around it?"

"I should think you would ruin the whole of the Blunt press," I replied, "and Blunt himself will commit suicide if he has the courage. In any case he will have to resign from every official position. Of course he would dispute its authenticity."

"That," La Fallaise assured me, "he could not do. He was staying secretly at the hotel from which the letter was written and the messenger who took it is still alive. His handwriting is unmistakable and the change in the tone of his newspapers from that period is absolute confirmation of his wretched bargain. The bankers, too, can testify that over a million pounds went into Blunt's account that month. Truth may lie deep at the bottom of the well, my friend, but when the morning of fate dawns it is there as clear as crystal."

He returned the letter to the place from which he had produced it and locked the despatch box. There was a knock at the door. A very obvious French manservant, carrying his hat in his hand but dressed for a journey, presented himself.

"The car awaits Monsieur," he announced.

"I am coming," La Fallaise said. "Go and take your place, Jean. See that the bags are down."

"Everything is prepared, Monsieur."

The man obeyed his master's wave of the hand and disappeared. La Fallaise threw his overcoat over his arm and held out his hand.

"Good-bye, my new friend Capitaine Lyson," he said. "If any evil chance should bring me again to this country we will foregather."

"But—but what is it you wish me to do?" I asked.

La Fallaise shook his head. "Nothing."</story>