<story title="YOUNG MAN AXELBROD" date="1917">
The cottonwood is a tree of a slovenly and plebeian habit. Its
woolly wisps turn gray the lawns and engender neighborhood
hostilities about our town. Yet it is a mighty tree, a refuge and
an inspiration; the sun flickers in its towering foliage, whence
the tattoo of locusts enlivens our dusty summer afternoons. From
the wheat country out to the sagebrush plains between the buttes
and the Yellowstone it is the cottonwood that keeps a little
grateful shade for sweating homesteaders. In Joralemon we call Knute Axelbrod "Old Cottonwood." As a
matter of fact, the name was derived not so much from the quality
of the man as from the wide grove about his gaunt white house and
red barn. He made a comely row of trees on each side of the
country road, so that a humble, daily sort of a man, driving
beneath them in his lumber wagon, might fancy himself lord of a
private avenue. And at sixty-five Knute was like one of his own cottonwoods,
his roots deep in the soil, his trunk weathered by rain and
blizzard and baking August noons, his crown spread to the wide
horizon of day and the enormous sky of a prairie night. This immigrant was an American even in speech. Save for a
weakness about his j's and w's, he spoke the twangy Yankee
English of the land. He was the more American because in his
native Scandinavia he had dreamed of America as a land of light.
Always through disillusion and weariness he beheld America as the
world's nursery for justice, for broad, fair towns, and eager
talk; and always he kept a young soul that dared to desire
beauty. As a lad Knute Axelbrod had wished to be a famous scholar, to
learn the ease of foreign tongues, the romance of history, to
unfold in the graciousness of wise books. When he first came to
America he worked in a sawmill all day and studied all evening.
He mastered enough book-learning to teach district school for two
terms; then, when he was only eighteen, a great-hearted pity for
faded little Lena Wesselius moved him to marry her. Gay enough,
doubtless, was their hike by prairie schooner to new farmlands,
but Knute was promptly caught in a net of poverty and family.
From eighteen to fifty-eight he was always snatching children
away from death or the farm away from mortgages. He had to be content--and generously content he was--with the
second-hand glory of his children's success and, for himself,
with pilfered hours of reading--that reading of big, thick,
dismal volumes of history and economics which the lone mature
learner chooses. Without ever losing his desire for strange
cities and the dignity of towers he stuck to his farm. He
acquired a half-section, free from debt, fertile, well-stocked,
adorned with a cement silo, a chicken-run, a new windmill. He
became comfortable, secure, and then he was ready, it seemed, to
die; for at sixty-three his work was done, and he was unneeded
and alone. His wife was dead. His sons had scattered afar, one a dentist
in Fargo, another a farmer in the Golden Valley. He had turned
over his farm to his daughter and son-in-law. They had begged him
to live with them, but Knute refused. "No," he said, "you must learn to stand on your own feet. I
vill not give you the farm. You pay me four hundred dollars a
year rent, and I live on that and vatch you from my hill." ? ? On a rise beside the lone cottonwood which he loved best of
all his trees Knute built a tar-paper shack, and here he "bached
it"; cooked his meals, made his bed, sometimes sat in the sun,
read many books from the Joralemon library, and began to feel
that he was free of the yoke of citizenship which he had borne
all his life. For hours at a time he sat on a backless kitchen chair before
the shack, a wide-shouldered man, white-bearded, motionless; a
seer despite his grotesquely baggy trousers, his collarless
shirt. He looked across the miles of stubble to the steeple of
the Jackrabbit Forks church and meditated upon the uses of life.
At first he could not break the rigidity of habit. He rose at
five, found work in cleaning his cabin and cultivating his
garden, had dinner exactly at twelve, and went to bed by
afterglow. But little by little he discovered that he could be
irregular without being arrested. He stayed abed till seven or
even eight. He got a large, deliberate, tortoise-shell cat, and
played games with it; let it lap milk upon the table, called it
the Princess, and confided to it that he had a "sneaking idee"
that men were fools to work so hard. Around this coatless old
man, his stained waistcoat flapping about a huge torso, in a
shanty of rumpled bed and pine table covered with sheets of
food-daubed newspaper, hovered all the passionate aspiration of
youth and the dreams of ancient beauty. He began to take long
walks by night. In his necessitous life night had ever been a
period of heavy slumber in close rooms. Now he discovered the
mystery of the dark; saw the prairies wide-flung and misty
beneath the moon, heard the voices of grass and cottonwoods and
drowsy birds. He tramped for miles. His boots were dew-soaked,
but he did not heed. He stopped upon hillocks, shyly threw wide
his arms, and stood worshiping the naked, slumbering land. These excursions he tried to keep secret, but they were
bruited abroad. Neighbors, good, decent fellows with no sense
about walking in the dew at night, when they were returning late
from town, drunk, lashing their horses and flinging whisky
bottles from racing democrat wagons, saw him, and they spread the
tidings that Old Cottonwood was "getting nutty since he give up
his farm to that son-in-law of his and retired. Seen the old
codger wandering around at midnight. Wish I had his chance to
sleep. Wouldn't catch me out in the night air." Any rural community from Todd Center to Seringapatam is
resentful of any person who varies from its standard, and is
morbidly fascinated by any hint of madness. The countryside began
to spy on Knute Axelbrod, to ask him questions, and to stare from
the road at his shack. He was sensitively aware of it, and
inclined to be surly to inquisitive acquaintances. Doubtless that
was the beginning of his great pilgrimage. As a part of the general wild license of his new life--really,
he once roared at that startled cat, the Princess: "By gollies! I
ain't going to brush my teeth tonight. All my life I've brushed
'em, and alvays wanted to skip a time vunce"--Knute took
considerable pleasure in degenerating in his taste in
scholarship. He wilfully declined to finish The Conquest of
Mexico, and began to read light novels borrowed from the
Joralemon library. So he rediscovered the lands of dancing and
light wines, which all his life he had desired. Some economics
and history he did read, but every evening he would stretch out
in his buffalo-horn chair, his feet on the cot and the Princess
in his lap, and invade Zenda or fall in love with Trilby. Among the novels he chanced upon a highly optimistic story of
Yale in which a worthy young man "earned his way through"
college, stroked the crew, won Phi Beta Kappa, and had the most
entertaining, yet moral, conversations on or adjacent to "the
dear old fence." As a result of this chronicle, at about three o'clock one
morning, when Knute Axelbrod was sixty-four years of age, he
decided that he would go to college. All his life he had wanted
to. Why not do it? When he awoke he was not so sure about it as when he had gone
to sleep. He saw himself as ridiculous, a ponderous, oldish man
among clean-limbed youths, like a dusty cottonwood among silver
birches. But for months he wrestled and played with that idea of
a great pilgrimage to the Mount of Muses; for he really supposed
college to be that sort of place. He believed that all college
students, except for the wealthy idlers, burned to acquire
learning. He pictured Harvard and Yale and Princeton as ancient
groves set with marble temples, before which large groups of
Grecian youths talked gently about astronomy and good government.
In his picture they never cut classes or ate. With a longing for music and books and graciousness such as
the most ambitious boy could never comprehend, this thick-faced
farmer dedicated himself to beauty, and defied the unconquerable
power of approaching old age. He sent for college catalogues and
school books, and diligently began to prepare himself for
college. He found Latin irregular verbs and the whimsicalities of
algebra fiendish. They had nothing to do with actual life as he
had lived it. But he mastered them; he studied twelve hours a
day, as once he had plodded through eighteen hours a day in the
hayfield. With history and English literature he had
comparatively little trouble; already he knew much of them from
his recreative reading. From German neighbors he had picked up
enough Platt-deutsch to make German easy. The trick of study
began to come back to him from his small school teaching of
forty-five years before. He began to believe that he could really
put it through. He kept assuring himself that in college, with
rare and sympathetic instructors to help him, there would not be
this baffling search, this nervous strain. But the unreality of the things he studied did disillusion
him, and he tired of his new game. He kept it up chiefly because
all his life he had kept up onerous labor without any taste for
it. Toward the autumn of the second year of his eccentric life he
no longer believed that he would ever go to college. Then a busy little grocer stopped him on the street in
Joralemon and quizzed him about his studies, to the delight of
the informal club which always loafs at the corner of the
hotel. Knute was silent, but dangerously angry. He remembered just in
time how he had once laid wrathful hands upon a hired man, and
somehow the man's collar bone had been broken. He turned away and
walked home, seven miles, still boiling. He picked up the
Princess, and, with her mewing on his shoulder, tramped out again
to enjoy the sunset. He stopped at a reedy slough. He gazed at a hopping plover
without seeing it. Suddenly he cried: "I am going to college. It opens next veek. I t'ink that I can
pass the examinations." Two days later he had moved the Princess and his sticks of
furniture to his son-in-law's house, had bought a new slouch hat,
a celluloid collar and a solemn suit of black, had wrestled with
God in prayer through all of a star-clad night, and had taken the
train for Minneapolis, on the way to New Haven. While he stared out of the car window Knute was warning
himself that the millionaires' sons would make fun of him.
Perhaps they would haze him. He bade himself avoid all these sons
of Belial and cleave to his own people, those who "earned their
way through." At Chicago he was afraid with a great fear of the lightning
flashes that the swift crowds made on his retina, the batteries
of ranked motor cars that charged at him. He prayed, and ran for
his train to New York. He came at last to New Haven. Not with gibing rudeness, but with politely quizzical
eyebrows, Yale received him, led him through entrance
examinations, which, after sweaty plowing with the pen, he barely
passed, and found for him a roommate. The roommate was a
large-browed soft white grub named Ray Gribble, who had been
teaching school in New England and seemed chiefly to desire
college training so that he might make more money as a teacher.
Ray Gribble was a hustler; he instantly got work tutoring the
awkward son of a steel man, and for board he waited on table. He was Knute's chief acquaintance. Knute tried to fool himself
into thinking he liked the grub, but Ray couldn't keep his damp
hands off the old man's soul. He had the skill of a professional
exhorter of young men in finding out Knute's motives, and when he
discovered that Knute had a hidden desire to sip at gay, polite
literature, Ray said in a shocked way: "Strikes me a man like you, that's getting old, ought to be
thinking more about saving your soul than about all these frills.
You leave this poetry and stuff to these foreigners and artists,
and you stick to Latin and math, and the Bible. I tell you, I've
taught school, and I've learned by experience." With Ray Gribble, Knute lived grubbily, an existence of torn
comforters and smelly lamp, of lexicons and logarithm tables. No
leisurely loafing by fireplaces was theirs. They roomed in West
Divinity, where gather the theologues, the lesser sort of law
students, a whimsical genius or two, and a horde of unplaced
freshmen and "scrub seniors." Knute was shockingly disappointed, but he stuck to his room
because outside of it he was afraid. He was a grotesque figure,
and he knew it, a white-polled giant squeezed into a small seat
in a classroom, listening to instructors younger than his own
sons. Once he tried to sit on the fence. No one but "ringers" sat
on the fence any more, and at the sight of him trying to look
athletic and young, two upper-class men snickered, and he sneaked
away. He came to hate Ray Gribble and his voluble companions of the
submerged tenth of the class, the hewers of tutorial wood. It is
doubtless safer to mock the flag than to question that
best-established tradition of our democracy--that those who "earn
their way through" college are necessarily stronger, braver, and
more assured of success than the weaklings who talk by the fire.
Every college story presents such a moral. But tremblingly the
historian submits that Knute discovered that waiting on table did
not make lads more heroic than did football or happy loafing.
Fine fellows, cheerful and fearless, were many of the boys who
"earned their way," and able to talk to richer classmates without
fawning; but just as many of them assumed an abject
respectability as the most convenient pose. They were pickers up
of unconsidered trifles; they toadied to the classmates whom they
tutored; they wriggled before the faculty committee on
scholarships; they looked pious at Dwight Hall prayer-meetings to
make an impression on the serious minded; and they drank one
glass of beer at Jake's to show the light minded that they meant
nothing offensive by their piety. In revenge for cringing to the
insolent athletes whom they tutored, they would, when safe among
their own kind, yammer about the "lack of democracy of college
today." Not that they were so indiscreet as to do anything about
it. They lacked the stuff of really rebellious souls. Knute
listened to them and marveled. They sounded like young hired men
talking behind his barn at harvest time. This submerged tenth hated the dilettantes of the class even
more than they hated the bloods. Against one Gilbert Washburn, a
rich esthete with more manner than any freshman ought to have,
they raged righteously. They spoke of seriousness and industry
till Knute, who might once have desired to know lads like
Washburn, felt ashamed of himself as a wicked, wasteful old
man. Humbly though he sought, he found no inspiration and no
comradeship. He was the freak of the class, and aside from the
submerged tenth, his classmates were afraid of being "queered" by
being seen with him. As he was still powerful, one who could take up a barrel of
pork on his knees, he tried to find friendship among the
athletes. He sat at Yale Field, watching the football try-outs,
and tried to get acquainted with the candidates. They stared at
him and answered his questions grudgingly--beefy youths who in
their simple-hearted way showed that they considered him plain
crazy. The place itself began to lose the haze of magic through which
he had first seen it. Earth is earth, whether one sees it in
Camelot or Joralemon or on the Yale campus--or possibly even in
the Harvard yard! The buildings ceased to be temples to Knute;
they became structures of brick or stone, filled with young men
who lounged at windows and watched him amusedly as he tried to
slip by. The Gargantuan hall of Commons became a tri-daily horror
because at the table where he dined were two youths who, having
uncommonly penetrating minds, discerned that Knute had a beard,
and courageously told the world about it. One of them, named
Atchison, was a superior person, very industrious and scholarly,
glib in mathematics and manners. He despised Knute's lack of
definite purpose in coming to college. The other was a play-boy,
a wit and a stealer of street signs, who had a wonderful sense
for a subtle jest; and his references to Knute's beard shook the
table with jocund mirth three times a day. So these youths of
gentle birth drove the shambling, wistful old man away from
Commons, and thereafter he ate at the lunch counter at the Black
Cat. Lacking the stimulus of friendship, it was the harder for
Knute to keep up the strain of studying the long assignments.
What had been a week's pleasant reading in his shack was now
thrown at him as a day's task. But he would not have minded the
toil if he could have found one as young as himself. They were
all so dreadfully old, the money-earners, the serious laborers at
athletics, the instructors who worried over their life work of
putting marks in class-record books. Then, on a sore, bruised day, Knute did meet one who was
young. Knute had heard that the professor who was the idol of the
college had berated the too-earnest lads in his Browning class,
and insisted that they read Alice in Wonderland. Knute
floundered dustily about in a second-hand bookshop till he found
an "Alice," and he brought it home to read over his lunch of a
hot-dog sandwich. Something in the grave absurdity of the book
appealed to him, and he was chuckling over it when Ray Gribble
came into the room and glanced at the reader. "Huh!" said Mr. Gribble. "That's a fine, funny book," said Knute. "Huh! Alice in Wonderland! I've heard of it. Silly
nonsense. Why don't you read something really fine, like
Shakespeare or Paradise Lost?" "Vell--" said Knute, all he could find to say. With Ray Gribble's glassy eye on him, he could no longer roll
and roar with the book. He wondered if indeed he ought not to be
reading Milton's pompous anthropological misconceptions. He went
unhappily out to an early history class, ably conducted by
Blevins, Ph.D. Knute admired Blevins, Ph.D. He was so tubbed and eyeglassed
and terribly right. But most of Blevins' lambs did not like
Blevins. They said he was a "crank." They read newspapers in his
class and covertly kicked one another. In the smug, plastered classroom, his arm leaning heavily on
the broad tablet-arm of his chair, Knute tried not to miss one of
Blevins' sardonic proofs that the correct date of the second
marriage of Themistocles was two years and seven days later than
the date assigned by that illiterate ass, Frutari of Padua. Knute
admired young Blevins' performance, and he felt virtuous in
application to these hard, unnonsensical facts. He became aware that certain lewd fellows of the lesser sort
were playing poker just behind him. His prairie-trained ear
caught whispers of "Two to dole," and "Raise you two beans."
Knute revolved, and frowned upon these mockers of sound learning.
As he turned back he was aware that the offenders were chuckling,
and continuing their game. He saw that Blevins, Ph.D., perceived
that something was wrong; he frowned, but he said nothing. Knute
sat in meditation. He saw Blevins as merely a boy. He was sorry
for him. He would do the boy a good turn. When class was over he hung about Blevins' desk till the other
students had clattered out. He rumbled: "Say, Professor, you're a fine fellow. I do something for you.
If any of the boys make themselves a nuisance, you yust call on
me, and I spank the son of a guns." Blevins, Ph.D., spake in a manner of culture and
nastiness: "Thanks so much, Axelbrod, but I don't fancy that will ever be
necessary. I am supposed to be a reasonably good disciplinarian.
Good day. Oh, one moment. There's something I've been wishing to
speak to you about. I do wish you wouldn't try quite so hard to
show off whenever I call on you during quizzes. You answer at
such needless length, and you smile as though there were
something highly amusing about me. I'm quite willing to have you
regard me as a humorous figure, privately, but there are certain
classroom conventions, you know, certain little conventions." "Why, Professor!" wailed Knute, "I never make fun of you! I
didn't know I smile. If I do, I guess it's yust because I am so
glad when my stupid old head gets the lesson good." "Well, well, that's very gratifying, I'm sure. And if you will
be a little more careful--" Blevins, Ph.D., smiled a toothy, frozen smile, and trotted off
to the Graduates' Club, to be witty about old Knute and his way
of saying "yust," while in the deserted classroom Knute sat
chill, an old man and doomed. Through the windows came the light
of Indian summer; clean, boyish cries rose from the campus. But
the lover of autumn smoothed his baggy sleeve, stared at the
blackboard, and there saw only the gray of October stubble about
his distant shack. As he pictured the college watching him,
secretly making fun of him and his smile, he was now faint and
ashamed, now bull-angry. He was lonely for his cat, his fine
chair of buffalo horns, the sunny doorstep of his shack, and the
understanding land. He had been in college for about one
month. Before he left the classroom he stepped behind the
instructor's desk and looked at an imaginary class. "I might have stood there as a prof if I could have come
earlier," he said softly to himself. Calmed by the liquid autumn gold that flowed through the
streets, he walked out Whitney Avenue toward the butte-like hill
of East Rock. He observed the caress of the light upon the
scarped rock, heard the delicate music of leaves, breathed in air
pregnant with tales of old New England. He exulted: "'Could write
poetry now if I yust--if I yust could write poetry!" He climbed to the top of East Rock, whence he could see the
Yale buildings like the towers of Oxford, and see Long Island
Sound, and the white glare of Long Island beyond the water. He
marveled that Axelbrod of the cottonwood country was looking
across an arm of the Atlantic to New York state. He noticed a
freshman on a bench at the edge of the rock, and he became
irritated. The freshman was Gilbert Washburn, the snob, the
dilettante, of whom Ray Gribble had once said: "That guy is the
disgrace of the class. He doesn't go out for anything, high stand
or Dwight Hall or anything else. Thinks he's so doggone much
better than the rest of the fellows that he doesn't associate
with anybody. Thinks he's literary, they say, and yet he doesn't
even heel the 'Lit,' like the regular literary fellows! Got no
time for a loafing, mooning snob like that." As Knute stared at the unaware Gil, whose profile was fine in
outline against the sky, he was terrifically public-spirited and
disapproving and that sort of moral thing. Though Gil was much
too well dressed, he seemed moodily discontented. "What he needs is to vork in a threshing crew and sleep in the
hay," grumbled Knute almost in the virtuous manner of Gribble.
"Then he vould know when he vas vell off, and not look like he
had the earache. Pff!" Gil Washburn rose, trailed toward Knute,
glanced at him, sat down on Knute's bench. "Great view!" he said. His smile was eager. That smile symbolized to Knute all the art of life he had come
to college to find. He tumbled out of his moral attitude with
ludicrous haste, and every wrinkle of his weathered face creased
deep as he answered: "Yes: I t'ink the Acropolis must be like this here." "Say, look here, Axelbrod; I've been thinking about you." "Yas?" "We ought to know each other. We two are the class scandal. We
came here to dream, and these busy little goats like Atchison and
Giblets, or whatever your roommate's name is, think we're fools
not to go out for marks. You may not agree with me, but I've
decided that you and I are precisely alike." "What makes you t'ink I come here to dream?" bristled
Knute. "Oh, I used to sit near you at Commons and hear you try to
quell old Atchison whenever he got busy discussing the reasons
for coming to college. That old, moth-eaten topic! I wonder if
Cain and Abel didn't discuss it at the Eden Agricultural College.
You know, Abel the mark-grabber, very pious and high stand, and
Cain wanting to read poetry." "Yes," said Knute, "and I guess Prof. Adam say, 'Cain, don't
you read this poetry; it von't help you in algebry.'" "Of course. Say, wonder if you'd like to look at this volume
of Musset I was sentimental enough to lug up here today. Picked
it up when I was abroad last year." From his pocket Gil drew such a book as Knute had never seen
before, a slender volume, in a strange language, bound in
hand-tooled crushed levant, an effeminate bibelot over which the
prairie farmer gasped with luxurious pleasure. The book almost
vanished in his big hands. With a timid forefinger he stroked the
levant, ran through the leaves. ''I can't read it, but that's the kind of book I alvays
t'ought there must be some like it," he sighed. "Listen!" cried Gil. "Ysaye is playing up at Hartford tonight.
Let's go hear him. We'll trolley up. Tried to get some of the
fellows to come, but they thought I was a nut." What an Ysaye was, Knute Axelbrod had no notion; but "Sure!"
he boomed. When they got to Hartford they found that between them they
had just enough money to get dinner, hear Ysaye from gallery
seats, and return only as far as Meriden. At Meriden Gil
suggested: "Let's walk back to New Haven, then. Can you make it?" Knute had no knowledge as to whether it was four miles or
forty back to the campus, but "Sure!" he said. For the last few
months he had been noticing that, despite his bulk, he had to be
careful, but tonight he could have flown. In the music of Ysaye, the first real musician he had ever
heard, Knute had found all the incredible things of which he had
slowly been reading in William Morris and "Idylls of the King."
Tall knights he had beheld, and slim princesses in white samite,
the misty gates of forlorn towns, and the glory of the chivalry
that never was. They did walk, roaring down the road beneath the October moon,
stopping to steal apples and to exclaim over silvered hills,
taking a puerile and very natural joy in chasing a profane dog.
It was Gil who talked, and Knute who listened, for the most part;
but Knute was lured into tales of the pioneer days, of blizzards,
of harvesting, and of the first flame of the green wheat.
Regarding the Atchisons and Gribbles of the class both of them
were youthfully bitter and supercilious. But they were not bitter
long, for they were atavisms tonight. They were wandering
minstrels, Gilbert the troubadour with his man-at-arms. They reached the campus at about five in the morning. Fumbling
for words that would express his feeling, Knute stammered: "Vell, it vas fine. I go to bed now and I dream about--" "Bed? Rats! Never believe in winding up a party when it's
going strong. Too few good parties. Besides, it's only the shank
of the evening. Besides, we're hungry. Besides--oh, besides! Wait
here a second. I'm going up to my room to get some money, and
we'll have some eats. Wait! Please do!" Knute would have waited all night. He had lived almost seventy
years and traveled fifteen hundred miles and endured Ray Gribble
to find Gil Washburn. Policemen wondered to see the celluloid-collared old man and
the expensive-looking boy rolling arm in arm down Chapel Street
in search of a restaurant suitable to poets. They were all
closed. "The Ghetto will be awake by now," said Gil. "We'll go buy
some eats and take 'em up to my room. I've got some tea
there." Knute shouldered through dark streets beside him as naturally
as though he had always been a nighthawk, with an aversion to
anything as rustic as beds. Down on Oak Street, a place of low
shops, smoky lights and alley mouths, they found the slum already
astir. Gil contrived to purchase boxed biscuits, cream cheese,
chicken-loaf, a bottle of cream. While Gil was chaffering, Knute
stared out into the street milkily lighted by wavering gas and
the first feebleness of coming day; he gazed upon Kosher signs
and advertisements in Russian letters, shawled women and bearded
rabbis; and as he looked he gathered contentment which he could
never lose. He had traveled abroad tonight. ? ? The room of Gil Washburn was all the useless, pleasant things
Knute wanted it to be. There was more of Gil's Paris days in it
than of his freshmanhood: Persian rugs, a silver tea service,
etchings, and books. Knute Axelbrod of the tar-paper shack and
piggy farmyards gazed in satisfaction. Vast bearded, sunk in an
easy chair, he clucked amiably while Gil lighted a fire. Over supper they spoke of great men and heroic ideals. It was
good talk, and not unspiced with lively references to Gribble and
Atchison and Blevins, all asleep now in their correct beds. Gil
read snatches of Stevenson and Anatole France; then at last he
read his own poetry. It does not matter whether that poetry was good or bad. To
Knute it was a miracle to find one who actually wrote it. The talk grew slow, and they began to yawn. Knute was
sensitive to the lowered key of their Indian-summer madness, and
he hastily rose. As he said good-by he felt as though he had but
to sleep a little while and return to this unending night of
romance. But he came out of the dormitory upon day. It was six-thirty
of the morning, with a still, hard light upon redbrick walls. "I can go to his room plenty times now; I find my friend,"
Knute said. He held tight the volume of Musset, which Gil had
begged him to take. As he started to walk the few steps to West Divinity Knute
felt very tired. By daylight the adventure seemed more and more
incredible. As he entered the dormitory he sighed heavily: "Age and youth, I guess they can't team together long." As he
mounted the stairs he said: "If I saw the boy again, he vould get
tired of me. I tell him all I got to say." And as he opened his
door, he added: "This is what I come to college for--this one
night. I go avay before I spoil it." He wrote a note to Gil, and began to pack his telescope. He
did not even wake Ray Gribble, sonorously sleeping in the stale
air. At five that afternoon, on the day coach of a westbound train,
an old man sat smiling. A lasting content was in his eyes, and in
his hands a small book in French. </story>