<story title="THE TRAGEDY AT THE FLOWER FARM" date="1912">
MR. LAXWORTHY occasionally played golf. There were other distractions which appealed more strongly to him, and it was simply owing to the persistence of the girl that he happened to be on the fifth green at the time when the tragedy at the flower farm was discovered.

"This for the hole, I believe," Mr. Laxworthy remarked, whereupon he studied the line of his putt, adjusted his spectacles, took up his stance firmly and holed out from a distance of about seven yards. The American girl made a face at him.

"I don't believe you're as nice as I thought you were," she said, rather crossly. "Now, what are all those boys running for, do you suppose?"

Through the trees in the adjoining field a sea of violets bent their heads before the soft west wind. About a hundred yards away stood a large bare-looking farmhouse and spacious out-buildings. It was toward this that several caddies and one or two of the players were hurrying.

"Let's see what the trouble is," the girl exclaimed.

They walked along one of the straight furrows between the beds of violets. The farmhouse was built without any encircling fence in the centre of the field. A little way hack, on the left, was a huge barn. Outside this a woman stood weeping and wringing her hands, while a man, surrounded by a curious group of caddies and several players, was talking, loudly and excitedly. One or the residents at the hotel, who knew Laxworthy by sight, turned toward him as they hurried up.

"You don't happen to be a doctor, do you?" he asked.

The peasant stepped forward. In his blue shirt and soiled corduroy trousers he was entirely typical of his class— French, with a dash of the Italian.

"If monsieur knows anything of doctoring he may pass inside," he declared, "otherwise, no one shall enter my barn. I have sent for a doctor. I have sent for the police. What can a man do more? As for me—I shake. It is a horrible thing which has happened."

He wiped the sweat from his forehead with his forearm. There was no doubt about it that he was in mortal terror.

"I do know something of doctoring," Laxworthy admitted, answering him in his own tongue. "Who is ill?"

The man stared at him.

"Ill! Monsieur has not heard, then? But last night he came while we were at our evening meal—a tramp, half starved, shaking with fatigue and thirst. He prayed for work, for food, for a sup of wine.

"All these I offered. Why not? It is our busy season, and labor is welcome. I let him sleep in the barn. To-morrow, I said, he should work in the vineyard. This morning I forgot that he was there until an hour ago. 'The lazy rascal!' I thought; but I took him a mug of coffee.

"I carried It from the house out here to the barn. 'Giuseppe,' I shouted, 'wake up and come to your work. Here is coffee and bread.' Then I threw open the door, and behold! Monsieur may enter—"

The man pushed back the clumsy door of the barn. On a bundle of hay, just inside, a man lay dead. He lay on his side, and the long knife which had passed through his heart had come out behind his shoulder blade Mr. Laxworthy turned round.

"Keep these people away," he called out sharply. "Miss Chambers, you had better go home, please. Don't let any one in here," he added, turning to the farmer. "Don't let anything be moved or disturbed."

Laxworthy sank on one knee by the of the murdered man. For several moments he remained there. The former stood a few feet away.

"He came to you last night, and you had never seen him before?" Laxworthy asked.

"But never! He is a stranger. If I had known that he was one of those who are doomed, do you think that I would have had him here?"

"What do you mean by one of those who are doomed?"

The man shivered.

"The Camorra," he answered. "It is a crime of vengeance, this. There is the cross upon the cheek."

Mr. Laxworthy nodded slowly.

"What language did the man speak?"

"But the same as our own monsieur. Why not? He came from Marseilles last, he said, but he had lived in Tuscany."

Mr. Laxworthy rose to his feet. A motor car had drawn up in the road. A sergeant of gendarmes and the doctor came hurrying up. Mr. Laxworthy stood on one side.

"They called me," he explained to the doctor, "but you see for yourself. I have not interfered with the position of the body, nor touched the man. It is an affair, I fear, for the police."

Mr. Laxworthy strolled away over the perfumed field, and found Miss Chambers waiting on the seat by the sixth tee. They abandoned the game. Miss Chambers declared that she could do nothing but think of the dead man's face, of which she had had a hurried glimpse. On their way to the hotel Mr. Laxworthy asked her a question.

"You are a young lady," he said, "with some powers of observation. Did anything strike you about the face of that man?"

She shivered.

"Nothing except that it was the most hideous thing I ever saw in my life," she declared. "I'm afraid I'll dream of it for months."

Mr. Laxworthy found the news of the tragedy at the flower farm had already arrived, and people were busy discussing it. Mr. Laxworthy, who seldom went out of his way to speak to any one, paused before the wicker chair of Mr. Freeling Poignton. The latter greeted him cordially.

"They tell me you saw this poor fellow who's been murdered?"

"It is quite true," Mr. Laxworthy admitted.

Mr. Freeling Poignton clenched his fists.

"If I had my way.** he declared, "I'd make short ending of any Government who let these dirty, murdering societies flourish."

"Your humanitarian principles," Mr. Laxworthy said, "are well known. Tell me, would you consider it a gratification to them, or the reverse, that the murderer should be discovered?"

"Why, I'm surprised at that question, Mr. Laxworthy. You knew very well that I'm great on the sacredness of human life, and that's why I'm dead set against wars and all manner of armaments. But I'm also strong for Justice. That's just what I'm objecting to in this case. They tell me that they'll let the blackguard who did this thing slip away because he happens to belong to one of those murderous societies. That's what makes me so mad."

"I am pleased," Mr. Laxworthy answered, "to hear you soy this. Now. I believe that you could, if you cared to do so, insure the bringing to Justice of this murderer."

Mr. Freeling Poignton looked at Mr. Laxworthy curiously.

"What do you mean by that?" he demanded.

"I mean that, Camorra or no Camorra, If you cared to offer a thousand pounds reward for the arrest of the murderer he'd be arrested before a week is past."

"I'll do it!" Mr. Freeling Poignton declared, rising to his feet. "I'll have my secretary telephone to the police right away. I take it you know what you're talking about, Mr. Laxworthy?"

"There is no manner of doubt about that," Mr. Laxworthy replied.

Mr. Laxworthy went to his rooms for a few minutes, and strolled in to luncheon a little later. The invalid young man and his companion occupied a table just inside the large dining hall. Mr. Laxworthy on his way to his place paused before their table.

The young man looked up quickly.

"How is the invalid this morning?" he asked.

His companion shrugged his shoulders.

"Getting on slowly," he declared. "I can't seem to get him to eat enough, and he sleeps wretchedly."

"You should try a walk at night-time occasionally," Mr. Laxworthy suggested. "I myself find it the best sedative In the world."

Mr. Laxworthy passed on toward his seat. The two men exchanged glances.

"Do you know who that fellow is?" the young man asked suspiciously.

His companion shook his head.

"Rather an old woman. I think," he declared carelessly. "I don't know much about him except that he's always got his nose into some learned journal or another."

The young man's eyes were still following Mr. Laxworthy.

"You don't suppose—" he began.

His friend laughed scornfully.

"My dear Philip," he exclaimed, "don't be an ass!"

Mr. Laxworthy made his way to his own table, where his two companions had already commenced luncheon.

"We are both of us," Mr. Forrest Anderson remarked, "exceedingly curious as to the nature of your conversation with Mr. Freeling Poignton."

"There need be no secret about that," Mr. Laxworthy declared. "I have induced Mr. Freeling Poignton to offer a reward of one thousand pounds for the arrest of the murderer of that poor fellow who was found dead this morning at the outhouse of the flower farm."

Mr. Anderson and Sydney exchanged bewildered glances.

"But he was only an Italian laborer!" the former exclaimed.

Mr. Laxworthy continued his lunch for a few moments in silence.

"Well," he said at last, "I had some reasons for my interference. In the first place, the man was not an Italian peasant at all. On the contrary, he was an Englishman."

"An Englishman?"

"Not only an Englishman, but an Englishman with whose name and profession I happen to be acquainted. Furthermore, the farmer, who lied to me this morning, knows all about the crime."

"Tell us who he was," Anderson demanded softly.

"I recognized him directly I saw him lying there, although he had shaved his mustache. His name was John Beggs and he was an exceedingly clever and unscrupulous detective. You yourselves saw him only a few days ago in the buffet of the Gare de Lyon."

There was a moment's breathless silence. The little scene in the buffet rose up before their eyes. Sydney involuntarily glanced across the room toward the table where the invalid young man and his companion were sitting.

"Have you told any one?" he asked.

"Not a soul," Mr. Laxworthy answered. "I prefer to let the venom of that reward do its work. There is no one in this world so covetous for gold as a French peasant of his class. For a thousand pounds there are few of them who would not sell their brother's soul. We shall hear news, and before long."

Luncheon concluded, Mr. Laxworthy— with Forrest Anderson and Sydney—walked along the dusty road which led to the flower farm. The door of the barn was closed, and a gendarme stood there on duty. Mr. Laxworthy and his companions entered the house, but found nowhere any sign of life. It was not until Mr. Laxworthy had knocked for some time upon the banisters that the farmer put in a reluctant appearance at the head of the stairs.

"What do you want?" he demanded gruffly.

"I have come to bring you news," Mr. Laxworthy replied. "You remember me from this morning, I am sure? Come down and talk to me and my friends. You will find it worth your while."

The man come down a little unsteadily.

"News for me?" he muttered. "What is it, then?"

"A wealthy American gentleman who is staying at the Paradise Hotel is going to offer a reward of a thousand pounds, twenty-five thousand francs, mark you, for any information which will lead to the apprehension of the man who murdered that poor fellow out there. Twenty-five thousand francs! Why, it is a fortune."

The man who listened swayed upon his feet.

"Twenty-five thousand francs!" he gasped.

"It is a great fortune," Mr. Laxworthy continued. "With twenty-five thousand francs what could a man do here, for instance? Rebuild the place, buy more land, be master where he has been servant. Directly I was told of this, you see, I came to you. You should have the best chance of earning that money, my good friend."

"How can I earn it?"

"By giving such information as will lead to the arrest of the murderer," Mr. Laxworthy remarked cheerfully. "It is quite simple, isn't it? You have to think, to try and remember. There has been no examination yet. You have been wise to hold your tongue."

The man's eyes were lit with cupidity.

"It Is a wonderful sum," he said softly. "I must talk with my wife about this."

Mr. Laxworthy led the way toward the door.

"We will go now," he announced pleasantly. "I wished to be the first to bring you this news. And, my friend, a word in your ear."

The farmer stooped down. Mr. Laxworthy whispered. Then he passed out after his companions. The man whom they left there stood perfectly rigid for several moments. ,Then he spat upon the floor.

"He is a devil—that little Englishman!" he muttered to himself.

Mr. Laxworthy returned to the hotel alone shortly afterward. In one of the sheltered seats near the porch the American girl was sitting. Directly she saw Mr. Laxworthy she came toward him with a most bewildering smile.

"Mr. Laxworthy," she begged, "are you in a great hurry?"

"Not for a few minutes," be admitted. "It is now ten minutes to four. I take my tea at a quarter past."

"Please have tea with me," she invited. "I want to talk to you."

"I am much obliged to you," Mr. Laxworthy replied, "but I make my own tea with water which I have sent up from the chemist's, and tea which I brought out with me from England."

"I withdraw my invitation," she sighed. "At the same time, if you could spare me five minutes I should be very glad."

"I will walk with you so far as the small stone terrace there," he said. "There is a seat to the left which is in the sun and out of the wind."

Mr. Laxworthy led the way to the seat which he had indicated and arranged his shawl around his neck.

"I am quite ready," he declared.

"Mr. Laxworthy," she began, "there is a matter which has been worrying me, and upon which I want you to give me your advice. I hope you won't think it a liberty, but I am asking you because you seem to lead so thoroughly self-centred a life, and to be so utterly devoid of interest in what is going on around you, that I feel sure that anything you say will be quite impartial.

"It's about what happened at the flower farm," she continued, a little hesitatingly. "You know what that farmer says—that the man came late at night, while they were having their evening meal? Well, it isn't true—that's all there is about it."

"Not true?" Mr. Laxworthy repeated calmly. "Indeed!"

"I will tell you exactly what happened," she continued. "You know Mr. Lenfield, the young gentleman who has been so ill, and who is here with a friend—Mr. Hamar his name is? Well, yesterday afternoon I went for a short walk with Mr. Lenfield, and we stopped at the farm while he bought me some violets. Every one else was busy, so the farmer and his wife themselves came out to pick them for us, and while we were all there a man got over the fence by the road and came down one of the furrows toward us.

"He was quite close before any one took any notice of him. Then the farmer looked up and asked him what he wanted. He answered quite shortly; and then he said something to Mr. Lenfield in English which I didn't hear because I had turned to speak to the woman. When I looked around Mr. Lenfield had fainted. We got him some water from the house, and he had a brandy flask in his pocket, and he recovered wonderfully quick.

"I never thought anything more about the man who had come up, for he seemed to have gone away almost at once. Mr. Lenfield paid for the violets and we walked home together. He is very delicate, of course, and he says that it was just the shock of hearing some one speak whom he had not seen approach which upset him."

"You believe," Mr. Laxworthy asked, "that this stranger who came across the field and spoke to Mr. Lenfield was the man whom we saw dead at the farm this morning?"

"I'm not thinking about that at all," she answered. "I'm sure."

"The incident is a singular one, Laxworthy remarked.

"This is what's bothering me. girl went on. "At luncheon time Hamar came to me and asked if I would mind not saying anything about having been with Mr. Lenfield that afternoon when that man spoke to him. He said that Mr. Lenfield was in such a delicate state of health that if were called as a witness or had to identify the body he would certainly lapse."

"And what reply did you ma Mr. Hamar?"

"I am afraid," she confessed, "that, feeling sorry as I did for Mr. Lenfield, I promised not to mention it. I am wondering whether I have done right. Of course Mr. Lenfield could have fainted from some other cause, but it did seem to me as though the stranger addressed him not in the least casually, but as though they were acquaintances. I've been troubled about it ever since. Mr. Laxworthy and decided to ask your advice. What do you think I ought to do?"

Mr. Laxworthy sat quite still for several moments. Then he rose slowly to his feet.

"My dear young lady," he said, "nothing that you can do or leave undone can alter one hair's breadth, the course of events which are likely to transpire. My advice to you is to wait."

"I feel sure you're right," she declared with a little sigh of relief. "It's very nice of you, Mr. Laxworthy."

They were on their way back to the hotel. Mr. Laxworthy consulted his watch and frowned.

"I have lost count of time to the extent of four minutes," he said irritably. "Good afternoon, Miss Chambers."

Mr. Laxworthy's room looked out at the back of the hotel. He had scarcely seated himself in his customary chair when there was a hurried tap at the door and Forrest Anderson entered.

"He left the flower farm two minutes ago," Mr. Anderson announced. "You'll see him in a minute or two coming around that belt of trees."

Mr. Laxworthy nodded and adjusted a small but powerful set of binoculars. In a few moments the figure of the flower farmer appeared in the direction indicated. He was coming straight toward the back of the hotel along a small footpath, walking hurriedly and more than once stopping to look behind. Suddenly, when within about a couple of hundred yards of his apparent destination, he checked his pace and commenced to saunter. A man was on his way to meet him. Mr. Laxworthy gave vent to an exclamation of annoyance.

"They will be too far away to be of any use to me," he muttered. "Slip down quickly. Forrest, and disturb them. If they see you they will certainly come nearer to the hotel rather than further away."

Mr. Laxworthy, through his glasses, watched the meeting of the two men. At first they stood face to face. Presently they sat down on a fallen log. Then Mr. Anderson, strolling along and whistling loudly, disturbed them. The man who had issued from the hotel rose and greeted them respectfully. Mr. Anderson paused for a moment, and the man who had issued from the hotel stopped every now and then to admire the view.

The flower farmer and his companion rose and came slowly together toward the hotel. At the edge of the kitchen garden they paused and seated themselves upon a bench almost immediately under Mr. Laxworthy's window. They talked earnestly for a time and then parted.

Mr. Laxworthy shut his binoculars with a faint smile. He then had his tea moved into Sydney's room, on the other side of the corridor, and settled down to wait for a visitor. In less than five minutes there was a knock at the door. It was the head waiter himself who entered. He closed the door behind him and advanced Into the room before he spoke.

"I beg your pardon, Mr. Laxworthy," he said, "but Jean Massen, the man who keeps the flower farm, is here and wishes to speak to you."

"To me?" Mr. Laxworthy repeated.

The head waiter, a smart, well groomed little man whom everybody called Luigi, bowed.

"I was not sure, sir, whether you would care to receive him," he said confidentially. Mr. Laxworthy laid down his magazine.

"I have no objection to seeing the man," he decided. "Pray bring him here yourself."

Jean Massen, sober enough now, was ushered in a few minutes later. He scarcely waited until the door was closed before he commenced his story.

"Monsieur," he declared, "It is not only the thousand pounds reward, it is not only the money. When I think of what has been done I tremble all over. my wife too, she has implored me to tell the truth. Monsieur, I come to you because you understand my tongue and because you first brought me word of the reward, which shows, monsieur," he added with a cunning gleam In his eyes, "that you had some idea in your head. There is an Englishman here, an invalid, who was with me in the field when the stranger first came. Last night the Englishman came to me."

Mr. Laxworthy nodded slowly.

"Ah!" ha remarked. "I noticed that he took a walk."

"He came to me, monsieur, and he told me that the stranger was no peasant, as he seemed, but a man who was his mortal enemy. He offered me so much money that I dare not mention it if I would take one of my own pruning knives and stab the stranger while he slept. Monsieur, how could I? What I did do was this. I said to him: 'Monsieur, if you have a quarrel with that man, he lies there in my barn, and the affair is none of mine. Settle your differences and my ears are deaf. It is finished.'

"He left me, monsieur, and he shook like a leaf; but he went out toward the barn, and on the way he picked up one of my pruning knives from the top of a barrel. What he did in that barn, monsieur, who but the good God shall tell?"

Mr. Laxworthy had listened to the farmer's recital, and his face had remained like the face of a sphinx.

"This, then. Jean Massen, is all that you know of the affair?" he asked now.

"It is all, monsieur, and more than enough," the man declared.

"The truth in these matters is the only safety," Mr. Laxworthy said quietly. "Go to the chief of the police and tell him what you have told me. If the Englishman is taken the reward will be yours."

The man breathed a deep sigh.

"I wish you good day, sir," he said, and left the room.

Mr. Laxworthy, from the balcony, watched him descend the hill and take the path through the woods into Hyère. Then, with a little shrug of the shoulders, he resumed his study of the Quarterly Review.

* * * * *

It was in the lounge after dinner that evening that the guests of the Paradise Hotel at Hyères were witnesses of a tragedy unique perhaps in the lives of most of them. The band was playing the music of a popular comic opera. People were standing about in little knots, talking before settling down to their bridge. Mr. Lenfield, looking very pale and ill, was taking his coffee and liquor with his friend, Mr. Hamar. The American girl was there, and Luigi himself was serving them.

Then down the broad passageway which led through the lounge a sergeant, followed by a gendarme, pushed his way, to the consternation of every one. They were accompanied by an interpreter in plain clothes. They walked straight to where Mr. Lenfield was sitting. The American girl, who saw them first, went pale to the lips. The young man himself sat perfectly still. His eyes were set in a fixed stare, his cheeks were ghastly. The sergeant came to a standstill before him.

"Monsieur," he announced, "it is my duty to arrest you for the murder of a man whose name is at present unknown at the flower farm of Jean Massen last night."

The young man half rose, and then collapsed. Mr. Laxworthy intervened.

"Mr. Sergeant," he said, "In the interests of justice let me assure you that you are making a mistake, The man of whom you speak was an Englishman, John Beggs, detective, who unfortunately for him, spent five years of his life in Genoa. This is the man who murdered him. I can furnish you, I believe, with satisfactory proof."

Mr. Laxworthy's hand suddenly fell upon the shoulder of the head waiter. With a crash Luigi's tray of liqueurs fell to the ground. He sprang back.

"It is a He!" he shrieked.

The gendarme seized him by the arm. Mr. Laxworthy cleared his throat.

"The murdered man, John Beggs, he said, "was responsible for the arrest in Genoa four years ago of the uncle of this man, Luigi Cantello. The uncle and his nephew here were both members of the Camorra, and John Beggs, who fled at once to England, has lived since then with a price upon his head.

"He came out here to watch, I believe, over Mr. Lenfield, with whose affairs I have nothing whatever to do. He came face to face with Luigi Cantello, who was a frequent visitor at the flower farm, and he has paid the penalty. This afternoon Jean Massen, the flower farmer, and Luigi here met and agreed that under the circumstances, which were certainly incriminating, the blame could easily be fixed upon the Englishman, Lenfield, and the reward divided between them. A series of incidents has placed these facts in my possession."

There, was a moment's breathless silence. The sergeant had turned toward Luigi With a sudden fierce movement the head waiter wrenched himself away.

For a second he crouched as though about to spring at Laxworthy. Then he changed his mind. A knife flashed the air. His own death cry was drowned in the shrieks of the women. The man had paid his own debt.</story>