<story title="THE STRANGE MEETING AT THE VILLA DE CAP FRINET" date="1912">
THE glass-enclosed luncheon room of the Casino at Cannes was filled almost to overflowing when Mme. Bertrand stopped at the head of the little flight of stairs to make some inquiry of the manager, who had stepped forward to meet her.

"It is a gentleman alone whom I seek," she announced. "He left a message for me with the concierge, M. Grayes."

The manager turned his head.

"There is a gentleman who sits alone on the other side of the room, madame," he said. "A yard or so further round the palms there, and you may see him."

Mme. Bertrand inclined her head graciously.

"It is he," she admitted. "Conduct me, if you please."

The manager led the way and Mme. Bertrand talked slowly down the room. Her gown of white serge fitted her to perfection. Her dull gold hair was arranged in the latest fashion. Her dark eyes shone luminously from the background of her pale skin.

"My dear Paul!" she cried, approaching the man who sat alone.

He sprang at once to his feet. He was a man of medium height, squarely and compactly built, with strongly marked features and prominent cheek-bones. He wore his black hair parted in the middle and a little long. His jaw too was exceptionally powerful, and his whole appearance gave one the impression of great strength. Nevertheless his voice when he spoke was exceedingly soft.

"My dear Julie!" he exclaimed. "How careless of me that I did not see you! It is charming to see you."

8he gave him her hand, which he held for a moment in his.

"You are from Monte Carlo this morning?" she asked.

"This morning," he admitted. "I drove myself, and I was impatient. Once more let me tell, you that it is charming to see you again, dear Julie."

She smiled a little bitterly. Perhaps she detected something of the insincerity of the man's words.

"You are very gallant, my dear Paul," she said. "I only wish that you meant half of what you say. What you of course are anxious to hear is my news."

"Julie!" he exclaimed reproachfully.

"We women are never so great fools," she continued, "that we do not understand in our hearts even though sometimes it gives us pleasure to make- believe. However, let that pass. I break my journey here to meet you, and I am glad to do it"

"You had my letter then?"

She inclined her head.

"Everything. has happened exactly as you surmised," she told him. "The two people whom you very carefully described left Hyères this morning. They travelled down to the station in the omnibus, and I in a small victoria, but we met at the railway station, and again at Toulon. They booked to Monte Carlo, but they descended here."

"You speak now," he asked eagerly, "of the stout, red faced man—Hamar— and his invalid friend, who goes by the name of Lenfield?"

"Exactly," she replied.

"Now, tell me," he continued. "There is an elderly little man staying at the Paradise Hotel whose name is Laxworthy—John T. Laxworthy. He has two friends with him—a Mr. Sydney Wing and a Mr. Forrest Anderson. This man Laxworthy appears to interest himself in other people's business. Who is he?"

"I cannot tell you who he is," Mme. Bertrand replied; "but I can tell you this. You may find it interesting. He and both his friends left the Paradise Hotel in an eighty horse-power motor car twenty minutes after the other two had left for the station."

The eyes of the man who listened were suddenly bright.

"This Laxworthy," he muttered, "is he, too, in the game?"

Mme. Bertrand was grave.

"Paul," she said, "I do not know what game it is that you speak of. You keep everything so secret from me. But I can tell you this: Mr. Laxworthy and his friends are not entirely what they seem. They belong more or less to those who seek adventures."

"You know this?" he demanded.

"Assuredly. One of the three stole a paper from my purse. It was a safe- conduct to a French battleship, and very nearly resulted in the theft of some valuable papers."

The man tapped on the table for a moment with his forefinger.

"Julie," he said thoughtfully, "the man Laxworthy disturbs me. To-night should be a night of simple issues."

Mme. Bertrand sighed.

"You talk to me as though I understood," she reminded him.

"Dear Julie," he said, "why should you not understand? This young man Philip Lenfield and I have been concerned in the same affair for the last three years. Others have fallen away. He and I alone remain."

"You are enemies?" she whispered.

"Enemies, without a doubt," the man answered softly. "While we both live there is danger. To-night will be the end."

"You meet him to-night?"

"At a villa between here and San Raphael," he told her. "The meeting has been fixed for some time. He believes that he has made everything secure. The woman Rachel has gone over to his side. He expects to reach the villa to-night and to find her there, its mistress. I have planned other things. Rachel's day is past. Before we reach the Villa de Cap Frinet, Gassiat will have settled with her."

"The woman whom you loved!" Mme. Bertrand murmured.

"Julie," he said, "where I love I trust, and where I trust no longer my love turns to hate. So with Rachel. She was the woman of my heart. I was faithful to her. I trusted her. She shared my destiny. I was ready to walk hand in hand with her to the end. We have been together in great failures and in great triumphs. Yet the time came when she failed me. She thought she saw the beginning of the end.

"It was in London a year ago. We were hard pressed, it is true. Lacroy and Panmur went down. Felix was arrested. We seemed. indeed, stricken to the core. She never believed that I should escape.

"I was there in London in those days, Julie, with a cordon around me. Every morning the papers declared that within a few hours I must be arrested. Arrested, indeed! When the time came that I was ready to leave England I walked out of the Grosvenor Hotel with my valet behind me and saw my luggage piled upon the train and bought my magazines at the bookstall. I strolled up and down opposite my reserved place until the train started. I talked to my fellow passengers and I made my bow to England as many another.

"That was the end of all this talk of my arrest. Since then I have lived as I chose; I have done as I chose. The others went down, all save that one man —Philip Lenfield. He only has known. He and I together have seen the others go to their doom. To-night we are to meet."

She looked at him as though fascinated. She sat there and remembered the time when all Europe had run with his name, when the papers discussed from hour to hour the chances of his capture.

"In that delightful island," he continued, "where I spent some not unprofitable months, they entirely forgot that it was possible for a person of education—shall I say a gentleman?—to associate for his own purposes with the scum of the world.

"They searched for me all the time, as though I were one of the others. Absurd! They ransacked Whitechapel and Houndsditch while I read the morning papers in the lounge at the Savoy. To-night my secret will go down to the grave."

"You trust so few people," she murmured, "why do you trust me?"

"My dear Julie," he said, "some women keep silence through love, but love turns sometimes through the by-ways of jealousy into hate. Therefore I do not always trust the woman who loves. With you it is fear, and fear is a more terrible thing. I trust always the woman who fears me."

She leaned back in her chair and laughed. The laughter was musical enough, but it was not wholly natural. The man shrugged his shoulders.

"I would not waste a second of my time," he replied, "in profitless thought. Let that pass. Tell me, are you returning to the Paradise Hotel?"

"To-morrow. I go from here to visit some dear friends who have a villa up in the hills. I stay there to-night."

"I will take you there presently," he said. "In the meantime I have a fancy. Telephone to your hotel and ask whether Mr. Laxworthy and his friends have returned. In all my doings I like certainties, and in my plans for to-day there is no other element of uncertainty save in the doings of that intrusive person."

She wrote out a message and handed it to a boy. Presently the reply was:

"Madam," the boy announced. "I have spoken with the Paradise Hotel at Hyères. M. Laxworthy and his friends have not returned."

The man whose name was Grayes sat for some moments in silence.

"I have made my plans," he said thoughtfully, "and I have made them with great nicety, but I have made no allowance for any intervention by any outslide party. In the,villa at the present moment Rachel lies bound and gagged, awaiting my pleasure. Gassiat is her jailer. At six o'clock this evening I shall be there. At half-past six Lenfield and his bulldog will be there also."

"Why are you so sure," she asked, "that Philip Lenfield and his friend will be there alone? Are you not afraid lest she should betray you?"

The man shook his head.

"Lenfield knows very well that I am on my guard," he replied. "Besides, this is no ordinary struggle. I tell you many things, but I do not tell you quite all. There is one little fact of which I have not spoken, which, while it makes this young man crave for my death as for nothing else on earth, keeps him yet my slave. He is ordered to meet me there, and he-will come. He does not know that he is coming to his end."

Mme. Bertrand looked out of the window and sighed.

"It is all too complicated for me," she declared. "I do not understand whether this young Lenfield man is a criminal, a detective or a traitor."

Her companion smiled.

"If he were on his trial," he remarked, "he would find it hard to plead 'Not guilty!' to either charge. Let me take you to your friends* house before I start on my Journey. I have an hour to spare."

"And to-morrow?" she asked.

"To-morrow," he replied, "when you Wake you may say to yourself that Paul Grayes has commenced a new life. To-morrow I sail from Villa Franche for New York."

* * * * *

Paul Grayes, alone in his low, torpedo-shaped, gray automobile, glided away from Cannes over the most beautiful road in Europe toward the Villa de Cap Frinet. If, indeed, the darkening way were lined with ghosts no signs of their near presence seemed to trouble or discompose him. He drove on toward his goal as one might pass to his home after the day's work. It was the end to which he moved. Before night was done he meant to rid himself of the two remaining persons on earth still possessed of his secret. It was barely dusk before he flew up the last descent. Below him was the little bay and the villa. A single light was flickering from one of the top rooms! He looked at it for a moment thoughtfully. He could picture Rachel lying there bound and gagged according to his orders, watched over by Gassiat—the man who had never failed him.

Slowly and with, firm fingers he guided the car down the hill. Under the shadows of the trees which fringed the villa gardens he brought it to a standstill and glanced once more at his watch. He still had plenty of time. He vaulted lightly over the wall and stood for a moment looking around him at the edge of the lawn. Still no one moved, no sign of life came from the villa. Gassiat should have been on the alert. Nevertheless he had no thought of evil as he rounded the veranda. Arrived on the seaward side of the villa he stopped short. He looked down at the landing stage with surprise. The launch which he had expected to find fastened there was missing. He stepped back and peered into the boatshed on the landward side. It was empty, save for a small, rickety dingy.

A queer little premonition of evil seized him for a moment only to be brushed on one side impatiently. He had made his plans. It was not likely that anything had gone wrong. If Laxworthy or any other had intervened the lives of twenty men lay within the weapon upon the butt of which his fingers were already clasped.

He retraced his steps to the front door of the villa and stepped boldly in- side. At first he could hear nothing. Slowly he mounted the stairs. He had directed that Rachel was to be bound and left in her bedroom to await his coming.

He pushed open the door. There was no trace of her there. He tried all the other rooms upstairs. They were empty. There was no sign of Gassiat, there was no sign of Rachael.

Still unfalteringly, he descended. What this thing might be which had prevented Gassiat from obeying his orders he could not tell, but he was prepared to face it. He looked in at the little sitting room. It was empty.

Last of all he opened the door of the dining room, and he began to understand. He stood there upon the threshold, and his fingers were stiff upon the barrel of his murderous weapon, his hand, however, never moved. For the moment it was useless.

The curtains of the room were closely drawn. Seated at the small round table, on which were the remains of what seemed to have been an excellent dinner, were Rachel, Mr. Laxworthy. Mr. Forrest Anderson and Sydney. But the thing which interested him most was the unfaltering and steady pointing of the revolver clasped in Mr. Laxworthy's right hand.

"My dear Paul, you are a welcome guest!" Rachel exclaimed, turning her head a little. "Take off your coat and sit down. I have done my best to entertain these gentlemen until your coming."

Paul Grayes stood still upon the threshold, and while he stood his brain was working like lightning. Who was this man Laxworthy? An enemy? One who had been on his track from the first? Was he to be bought or was this indeed the end?

Fortune had always been with him—fortune side by side with his indomitable courage. Was this the last trick in the game? He refused to believe it. He shrugged his shoulders ever so slightly and advanced into the room. He did not, however, at once remove his coat.

"If you are friends of my wife, gentlemen," he said, "you are naturally welcome here. At the same time you will forgive me if I feel that a certain trifling explanation would not be out of place? You, sir, for instance," he added, addressing Laxworthy, "appear to have adopted an original method of arresting my attention."

"Circumstances," Mr. Laxworthy replied coldly, "have made certain demands upon me. I am happy to meet you, Paul Grayes. Sit down here and talk with us."

"I have no doubt," the newcomer remarked with his eyes upon Mr. Laxworthy's revolver, "that your fingers are steady, but these modern weapons, I must admit, alarm me. Would it be possible to make some arrangement whereby you could be induced to put that murderous looking toy in your pocket?"

"Certainly," Mr. Laxworthy assented. "Take off your coat. Leave where it is whatever may be in the pockets."

Grayes obeyed without hesitation. He left the coat, however, on the back of another chair a little nearer to him than to any one else in the room. Then he drew a chair to the table.

Mr. Laxworthy's revolver was slowly lowered and laid across his knee. Rachael passed the newcomer a glass and Mr. Anderson the bottle.

"So far as regards any explanation of our presence* under your roof," Mr. Laxworthy said, "I can give it you if you will. My friends and I are wanderers upon the face of the earth with but one end and aim in existence—we seek for adventures, for new sensations. It seemed to me that nothing was more likely to provide these than the meeting to-night between you and the young man who calls himself Lenfield."

Paul Grayes poured out a glass of wine and drank it.

"Mr. Laxworthy," he said. "I agree with you. Left to ourselves, that young man and myself, I do indeed believe that that interview might possess great points of interest. If it is your intention to remain purely spectators, then I do not regret your presence. I often feel the inspiration of an audience."

Mr. Laxworthy smiled.

"To-night," he declared, "you have an appreciative one. Now, tell us, Paul Grayes. In ten minutes the man whom you must believe, since the breaking up of your band, to have been your secret enemy for all these months, will be here. Do you honestly think that it is to be a fair fight, that he will bring no help—no one to aid him? That it is to be a battle of either wits or arms between you two, and you two alone?"

The man whose name was Grayes smiled.

"My friend," he replied, "I am sure of it."

"It would interest me exceedingly," Mr. Laxworthy remarked, "to become acquainted with the reason of your confidence. Do you mind?" he added quickly. "—I am sorry to trouble you, but I do not like that backward motion of your chair. I seem to you, perhaps, an old man, but let me assure you that my hand is as quick as yours. See?"

Mr. Laxworthy's hand was indeed as swift as the lightning itself. It flashed across the table and the next moment the revolver was there, steady and unfaltering. Paul Graves waved it away.

"An unnecessary alarm, let me assure you," he declared. "You asked me a question, and I was about to reply to it. The young man who passes for the moment under the name of Lenfield could bring none of those myrmidons of Justice with whom he has tampered to face me.

"There are crimes in England which they will pardon, but there are some for which the rankest informer who ever breathed could never hope for mercy. Lenfield knows well enough that a dozen words from me and he might as well plead for a new left lung as to escape his fate.

"Now come, let me know the meaning of this little gathering, let me know to what it points, is this a plot? Do you know who I am? Do you want blood money? What have you to do with these men, Rachel? Tell me, where is Gassiat?"

Rachel shook her head sadly.

"Gassiat lies where he deserves to lie," she replied. "For once you were deceived, Paul. He is a faithless servant. He lies at the bottom of the Mediterranean."

Grayes was looking fixedly at. the woman. Slowly his lips seemed to draw apart, showing his white teeth. There was a dull glitter in his eyes. Although not a muscle of his body moved he seemed somehow like an animal preparing to spring. Rachel's eyes met his steadily. She showed not the slightest fear. Her lips, indeed, mocked him.

"Faithful—ah—no!" she murmured. "Gassiat came here, by your orders, to keep me company, to watch with me lest your enemy should reach here first. Gassiat—alas!—formed some plan of his own, or did he by any chance misunderstand your instructions? He left me, tied hand and foot and gagged, in my room, and it was not until we heard the approach of these gentlemen here that he could tear himself away."

Grayes bowed across the table.

"Your intervention," he remarked to Mr. Laxworthy, "was without doubt well timed, but still I do not understand why Gassiat lies at the bottom of the Mediterranean?"

"Because his fingers were clumsy in their haste, and because my strength was greater than he imagined." Rachel replied. "I was able to reach one of those admirable little weapons to which you yourself introduced me and, lying on my side, I shot him; I shot him twice, not mortally, but trying to escape from my bullets he fell overboard. Gassiat will make good food for fishes."

Then there came a shock for all of them. The voice was terrible enough, but the figure at which they looked was more terrible still.

"Not yet, Mme, Rachel! There are first things to be arranged!"

The eyes of all of them were glued now upon that weird figure who had stolen barefoot into the room. His appearance was terrible indeed. The sea- stain was stiff upon his drenched clothes. There were little fragments of seaweed about him. His hair was dank, one shoulder clumsily bound up, a wound still open upon his cheek. He was barefooted, and save for the one bloodstain upon his face his cheeks were as white as marble. In his left hand was a small shining revolver, and though he spoke to the others his eyes were fixed upon Mr. Laxworthy's.

"Master," he cried, "get up and take your proper place. If one of those three men moves I have the strength left to press this trigger,"

Mr. Laxworthy. whose hands were upon the table, nodded and raised his glass to his lips.

"You had better do as he tells you, Mr. Grayes," he said. "For a man who has spent a certain part of the day under the water, our friend over there seems to have a steady hand."

Already Grayes had possessed himself of his overcoat He too now was armed. Mr. Laxworthy sipped his wine.

Sydney's fingers seemed to flicker for a moment toward his pocket, and the silence of the room was broken at once by Grayes's still, hard voice . "A single movement like that, young sir, will be your last!" he cried. "Now stand up—there."

They all obeyed.

"Mr. Laxworthy." Grayes commenced, and then stopped short.

He held up his hand. No one spoke or whispered. From outside they heard distinctly the trampling of footsteps and the sound of voices. Grayes's eyes were cold and brilliant and with a dangerous glitter:

"How many?" he whispered. "Listen!"

Apparently he was satisfied. The voices and footsteps passed on to the side of the house.

"Gassiat," he said, "relieve these gentlemen of their weapons.

Mr. Laxworthy stood aside and indicated with his foot where his pistol had slipped to the floor. The others, following his example, did the same. Gassiat piled the-weapons upon the sideboard.

Then they heard-the-sound of footsteps in the hall. Grayes moved to the door.

"Will you come this way," he invited suavely. "We are waiting here."

There was the sound of a cough, a heavy footstep and a lighter one. Mr. Lenfield came in, leaning on the arm of his friend, Mr. Hamar.

There was a moment of breathless wonder. Lenfield's first impulse seemed to be to gaze steadfastly and with a curious dramatic intentness only at the man whose voice had summoned him. But Grayes with outstretched hand pointed to the others.

Lenfield's eyes, as though unwillingly, followed his gesture, and he started violently as he realized who was there.

"You!" he exclaimed. "Mr. Laxworthy!"

Paul Grayes smiled slightly.

"You know Mr. Laxworthy and his friends, I perceive," he said. "Let me introduce you, then, to three very interesting gentlemen. A wonderful trio of conspirators. I think, only I am not quite sure that they would not have done better to have poked about among the scandals of the Paradise Hotel rather than to have forced their way here to witness this final meeting between you and me, Philip Lenfield."

Lenfield shook himself free from his companion's support.

"With Mr. Laxworthy or his friends I have nothing whatever to do," he declared calmly. "I do not know how they discovered our trysting piece. They came here, I presume, at their own risk. Let me look at you, Paul Grayes. Stand out of the shadows there. Ah!"

The two men were opposite to each other now, the face of each dimly illuminated by the great lamp. Curiously enough, as they stood there all that was worst in Lenfield's wasted features seemed to have crept into his face, to match the hard, bestial stare of the man into whose countenance he was gating so earnestly.

"You see me," Grayes said. "I am unchanged. You and I together have planned some things which have made the world shiver. You never saw me flinch— you never will. The end of these others is written, but for us—for us, Philip!"

Mr. Laxworthy coughed slightly. "If I might be permitted," he said. leaning a little over the table, something after the fashion of one about to make an after-dinner speech.

His words and his manner of saying them seemed so curiously inapt that both men were silent.

"I have not yet had an opportunity," Mr. Laxworthy continued of making a suitable apology for my presence here to-night. Believe me, it is not altogether a blundering visit.

"I am, as you have perhaps heard, a man addicted to the study of philosophy, who now and then steps a little out of his way to notice curious phenomena in human life. A year ago all London was thrilled by the doings of a gang of the most desperate criminals who ever defied the police or the canons of our modern civilization. I will admit that I was hugely interested.

"I sought to probe some of the secrets of that band. I found them to be composed of a few men whose safety consisted in one axiom—they fed upon one another."

Lenfield started slightly. Both men now were listening. Rachel too leaned across the table with a wicked smile upon her lips.

"But this man is wonderful," she murmured.

"Six or seven was it perhaps, this little band consisted of," Mr. Laxworthy continued, "and a score or more of murders at their door. For six or seven there is no safety, for, as we an know, a really great criminal is trapped only by the indiscretions or infidelity of his associates.

"Two men there were with brains. From their hidden places they pointed one by one with unerring finger to their other associates. The police followed that finger, and those other associates went to the grave. The two were left. The time came when one of those two decided that two were too many."

Paul Grayes was leaning across the table now and his hands were twitching. Lenfield, who had at some time or another possessed a sense of humor, smiled faintly.

"Hear him!" he muttered. "Which, Mr. Laxworthy? Which?"

"You, Philip Lenfield. have been hard pressed," Mr. Laxworthy remarked. "Your secret has been fairly well probed. But fortunately or unfortunately for you, it is the greater man who is most sought.

"Perhaps he too knows that. Perhaps he too has heard the distant echo of suspicion, has heard the footsteps of those who are gathering around.

"Philip Lenfield has not betrayed you," Mr. Laxworthy continued, raising his voice a little. "He came here to-night, intending very likely to carry out your first principles, but he was forestalled.

"Paul Grayes, it is I whom you may thank for the fact that your stateroom in the Coronia to-morrow will be empty, that you will embark instead upon a longer and more momentous journey. The man there who calls himself Lenfield knows your-secret, but as I live no breath of it has ever passed his lips.

"I too know that the man who has baffled the police of every country in the world for nearly two years, the man who made himself infamous forever under the name—"

Mr. Laxworthy's genius at the supreme moment did not fail him. He had talked until the last possible second. He broke off with his sentence unfinished.

No one knew exactly how it was done—no one saw, even, whence he procured the missile, but with one lightning blow the lamp fell broken upon the ground and the room was plunged into darkness. Before the sound of the crash had died away footsteps were heard coming from every direction.

Through the French window, left carefully unfastened, John T. Laxworthy. Forrest Anderson and Sydney-Wing stole softly out into the night. A cordon of gendarmes opened to let them pass. They took shelter beneath the oleander trees.

"If one could but see inside!" Mr. Laxworthy muttered. "We left the fraction of a second too soon."

Almost as he spoke, a great blinding flash of light, from which leaped scintillations on every side, lit up the whole of the room which they had just quitted. They heard the crashing of glass, they saw the walls crack.

They saw Paul Grayes, a pistol in either hand, firing madly at the spot where Mr. Laxworthy had stood, leap into the air and fall down, a huddled up heap. They saw Rachel, with her head buried in her arms, Gassiat lying at her side. Save those three there was no one in the wrecked room. Then again there was darkness, broken only by the sound of voices as the gendarmes cautiously drew their circle closer.

"What about Lenfield?" Anderson murmured hoarsely.

"He goes free," Mr. Laxworthy answered. Come!"

Softly they stole along the tunnel-like darkness of the avenue. Mr. Laxworthy seated himself in the tonneau of the car and wrapped his shawl carefully about his shoulders while Sydney lit the lamps.

"We will proceed to-night," Mr. Laxworthy said, "only so far as Cannes. I have engaged rooms at the Metropole. To-morrow we will go to Monte Carlo. This night driving makes me nervous."

Sydney took his place at the wheel. Mr. Laxworthy leaned forward once more.

"I insist upon it. Sydney," he said, "that you drive, with great care! I am already a little overheated, and the night air is treacherous. Besides, these curves are most dangerous."

"With a little smile on his lips Sydney slipped in the clutch. The car glided up the hill and was lost in the shadows.</story>