<story title="BUNGLERS AT THE GAME" date="1939">
JULIE sometimes calls me an old maid. I admit that I have fixed habits as regards the greater part of my dally life.

It was consequently rather a shock to me to wake up suddenly at half-past seven one morning and discover, towering over me by the side of the bed, a huge giant of a fellow with a fair beard cut rather short, very blue eyes, and an air of patient amiability such as I have seldom seen equalled. This vision held out a huge hand to me. I shook it before I realised what I was doing. Then I sat up in bed.

"What the mischief do you want?" I asked. "Who are you?"

With a beatific smile he produced a card and handed it to me. Upon it was engraved with many flourishes:

"Baron Conrad von Corberg."

"Well, what do you want with me at this hour of the morning?" I inquired. "And how did you get here?"

"I came in through your sitting room," he confided. "I have asked the valet respecting your habits, and I find that you do not rise until eight o'clock. That does not suit me. I have another case at eight-thirty. I am obliged to take you at half-post seven."

"Do you mind telling me what you are talking about?"

"I will tell you while we work," was the cheerful answer. "I looked in the bathroom and I discovered that you have plenty of warm towels. Will you kindly remove your pyjamas—see, I will assist you—and lie flat upon the bed? Yours is the right type of mattress, I am glad to see," he went on approvingly. "It has hard springs—not too much give. So," he demonstrated, pushing it down with his fist. "I now fetch a towel. Everything else—powder, the special preparation of my own that I sometimes use, I have ready here."

"But what the mischief is all this about?" I persisted. "What do you propose to do to me?"

He seemed a little hurt. He looked at me with wide open eyes filled with a gentle reproof.

"Why, to massage you," he explained. "It is for that I have come."

"But I never ordered you," I expostulated. "I don't want to be massaged. I am not going to be massaged. Who sent you here?"

"No one," he admitted cheerfully, his fingers all the time occupied with the buttons of my night attire. "So. That is excellent. A good chest, but, alas, it is always so—at thirty or afterwards—and your neck, that needs attention. Stomach is not so bad. Still, we shall improve that."

He was at it before I could remonstrate further. I lay still for a few momenta and felt his hands travelling over me with what I realised to be the inspired touch of the trained masseur.

"You see, it is good, that—yes?" he asked with the eagerness of a child. "Soon you will never be able to rise without your morning massage. You will respond, too. You have an excellent frame, Captain Lyson. You are just a little short of exercise, otherwise I should say in perfect condition."

Since it seemed that Fate had ordained that I was to be massaged, I left off arguments and allowed him to proceed. At three minutes to eight he finished, pulled the bedclothes up to my neck, took the tea tray from my astonished valet and placed it by the side of the bed.

"You would like me to make your tea for you—yes? Sugar—cream? Afterwards you will rest for ten minutes, then you take your bath as usual."

He disappeared into the bathroom.

"You excuse?" he called out, as I heard the toilet basin being filled. "I wash my hands—so. You are a good subject, Captain Lyson."

He came back to me, his face beaming. He put on his coat and came to my bedside.

"Four days a week I shall wish to come," he announced. "Which four days would you prefer?"

"What I should like to arrive at is, who told you to come at all?" I persisted.

"But no one," he explained. "How could you know whether you wanted massage or not until you tried? Most of my patients I get in this way. I mark them down myself as likely. Sometimes I find their names in the list of members of a well-known club, sometimes I come across them at the restaurants, more often than anything I visit the actors and the cinema-men and those who have to study their appearance greatly."

And how did you arrive at my name?" I asked.

"It came with others," he replied. "I do not remember."

"Do you find that everyone submits as meekly as I do?"

"I seldom have any trouble," was the well-satisfied reply. "Sometimes I find that a man may take months and months making up his mind to embark upon a course of massage, although he knows all the time that it would be good for him. That is what first gave me the Idea. I choose my clients. I find out their habits. I appear. You are a client of mine now. I come to-morrow morning or Thursday—which?"

"What do I pay for all this?" I asked.

"For the massage that you have received, my dear sir," was the prompt reply, "nothing. Nothing at all. It is my gift—my introduction to you. Henceforth the fee will be one guinea, and if you wish my services oftener than four times a week there might be some reduction allowed."

"You mean that the massage I have just received—"

He smiled a broad, happy smile.

"It is a gift," he repeated. "It is my own idea. No one else has built up a connection as I am building it up in just the same manner. I shall be here on Thursday at the same time, and I am sure that I shall find you happy to receive me."

He picked up a small bug and a rather well-worn black felt hat. Then he walked happily away

On the morning of my impromptu massage I motored a friend down to Woking, where we had a pleasant round of golf, and returned to my small flat in the Milan Court just before one. Before going to my table, I paused to talk for a few minutes to Louis, who was seated at the desk from which he superintended the destinies of the famous restaurant.

"Louis," I inquired, "do you notice anything special about my appearance this morning?"

"Nothing very special, Captain," he replied "You are looking very fit."

"It's going to cost me a guinea a morning to look as fit as this all the time," I confided. "Do you know that a ruffian whom I had never seen before barged his way into my rooms this morning, insisted upon massaging me, and went away without charging me a penny? I gathered, however, that he has adopted me as a regular patient at a guinea a time!"

"It appears to me a little unusual that he should come without any arrangement," Louis observed.

"He is a very unusual person," I declared. "Here's his card," I went on, laying it upon the desk before him. "Where, may I ask, is Mademoiselle?"

"In the flat I believe," Louis replied, "Go in and have a cocktail with her, Captain Lyson. She will be delighted."

"I certainly will," I agreed.

I knocked at the door of Louis' little flat, which was only a few yards away from the entrance to the Grill Room.

Julie herself admitted me.

"Dear man!" she exclaimed. "Do tell me that you have come to ask me to lunch."

"Nothing was farther from my thoughts," I assured her.

Her face fell.

"Méchant! And I am so triste to-day. Madame Gandin has gone back to Paris."

"Of course I came to beg you to lunch with me," I said. "Julie, look at me, please. Well? Anything special?"

"You look very well, and I like your tie."

I told her of my morning's adventure. She laughed heartily.

"I think it is delicious," she said. "Fancy that great strong man standing over your bed, holding you down whilst he pummelled and rubbed you!"

"It sounds exaggerated," I admitted, "but it isn't. If he hadn't looked so frightfully good-natured, and so pleased with himself, I should have wriggled away somehow. As it was, I just lay there like a lamb."

We drank our cocktails and indulged in a little gossip—Julie was a great friend of mine—and presently strolled out to my table. Louis, leaning over his desk, detained me as we passed. He was still holding in his hand the card I had given him.

"One moment, Captain," he begged. "This name—it sounds somehow familiar to me. Corberg. A foreigner, I imagine."

"Scandinavian, I should think," I told him. "Most of the good masseurs are."

"Is he coming again?"

"Thursday morning."

"There would be no harm," Louis suggested, lowering his voice, "If you asked him a few questions as to why he singled you out as a likely patient."

"I certainly will," I promised. "It's something I don't understand myself."


* * * * *

So on Thursday morning, at three minutes to half-past seven, when I heard a gentle knock at my door, I made up my mind to solve the mystery of the Baron von Corberg's unsolicited attentions. The question which was already framed upon my lips, however, was never asked. There was the Baron von Corberg right enough, with that delightful smile upon his lips, and just behind, looking into the room with an air of amused curiosity, stood the most beautiful feminine replica of the man it was possible to conceive.

The Baron introduced as proudly. "I take a liberty, Captain Lyson," he said. "I present you to my sister—Greta von Corberg. Sometimes I bring my sister with me on my rounds."

I drew the bedclothes a little tighter around me and sat upright.

"I—er—charmed, of course," I rejoined. "But really—I must apologise, Miss von Corberg. I may have the pleasure, perhaps, of seeing you later on."

If she noticed my embarrassment, she completely ignored the irritation which accompanied it. She came over to the bedside and held out her hand. Her smile was completely and utterly disarming.

"I am very happy to meet you, Captain Lyson," she said. "I like to know my brother's clients, then we can talk about them later in the day, when he has finished his rounds. You excuse that I come into your bedroom? We are not so strict, perhaps, in those ways as you are in England."

"Well, it's not exactly usual, you know," I ventured.

"I wait, if you permit, in your salon. It is a liberty, perhaps, that I have taken?" she asked, looking at me anxiously. "I am so sorry."

"Not in the least," I assured her. "Delighted to see you. In fact, I should have been disappointed if you hadn't come in. Will you make yourself comfortable in my sitting-room?"

"Of course," she replied. "It is very kind of you. I will be quite quiet, and not disturb anyone."

"You will find the morning papers there," I told her. "Come along, von Corberg," I added as he appeared from the bathroom, "We must not keep your sister waiting too long."

"My sister would not wish that I should hurry," he assured me. "I thought it might give you pleasure to see her, Captain. Might I," he went on, hanging up his coat and turning up his cuffs, "take one further slight liberty?"

His expression was that of a wistful, shaggy-haired dog.

"Of course. Go ahead."

"She is hungry, my sister," he confided. "She has magnificent health, but just now she is failing a little. There was some difficulty about our coffee. Excuse—"

"Do ask her to ring the bell and order anything she wishes from the waiter," I interrupted. "And get to work now, there's a good fellow."

He was across the room in three strides and, opening the door, he spoke a single sentence to the girl in a language which was strange to me. Then he returned eagerly to his task. No more smiles. No conversation. Very soon my whole body was in a glow.

"A beautiful response," he declared. "Your body reacts marvellously. You play the game of golf—yes? When I have done with your arms, they will be like elastic. You will drive the little white ball farther than anyone has ever driven it before. So."

He recommenced. Once he paused for a moment and held his head on one side as though to listen. We heard the clatter of china in the next room.

"My little Greta," he murmured, "she has her breakfast. That is good."

"Does she do anything?" I asked. "Any professional work?"

He looked shocked.

"My sister," he said. "No. She is of a noble family, you understand, Captain Lyson. She could not possibly mix with the people of the studios. Sometimes, when things go not so well, I have wished that there was some way that she could honorably earn a little money for her frocks. I do not mind wearing old clothes myself, but a girl so beautiful as my sister should not be shabby. She herself, however, does not mind. Some of her things," he continued, his tone becoming one of reverent admiration, "she makes herself."

I had a reply ready for him, but it was just at that moment that he chose to make a vigorous and, so far as I could see, wholly unprovoked attack upon my stomach and for a few minutes I was speechless. When I recovered the gift of speech, it was to find the young lady leaning through the doorway. She waved her hand to me.

"I wish good-bye," she said with an enchanting smile. "Such coffee I have not tasted for a long time. I thank you for my breakfast, Captain Lyson. My life is saved! I make a promenade in the park till I meet my brother."

"You can have him when you like," I gasped. "I've had enough."

She laughed deliciously, waved her hand once more and disappeared.

"Your sister," I remarked, as soon as I had recovered my breath, "is extraordinarily good-looking."

"All our family," he confided gravely, "are the same. Good looks, however," he added with a sigh, "are not always a blessing."

"In your sister's case, so far as you are concerned," I observed, "I should think they are a great responsibility."

He made no immediate reply. When he had finished with me, however, he pocketed the guinea I had left by my bedside with a low bow. Then he made an observation which for the moment puzzled me.

"When I have saved enough money," he said, "I shall send my sister back to her own country and arrange for her marriage. Until then, I keep her so far as possible by my side. It is for that reason that I thank you for your hospitality of this morning."

"Bring her whenever you like," I invited as he put on his coat. "She can always wait for you in the sitting-room."

"It Is a great kindness," he assured me. "I shall take more care than ever of your health. Until Monday, then."


* * * * *

I took my bath, shaved and made my toilet. When I reached the sitting-room, I smiled at the state of the young lady's breakfast tray. Both rolls had disappeared, also every scrap of the butter, and the coffee-pot was empty. I rang the bell for my own breakfast and turned to my letters. Half-way down the pile I came upon an oblong envelope on the back of which was the very familiar O.H.M.S. seal.

I was about to open the envelope, in fact, I had already inserted the point of my knife, when I stopped short. I carried the envelope to the window, adjusted my glass firmly, and stared at the seal. I felt it delicately with my finger. It was unusually soft and there was a suspicion of warmth. I examined the letter next in the pile beneath. There was a tiny spot of red wax, not bigger than the head of a pin, which seemed to have dropped on to the envelope.

From the first, I had been conscious of a lingering reminder of the perfume which I had noticed when the beautiful Greta stooped over my bed. I sniffed vigorously round the place where the letters stood. There was no doubt about it. Notwithstanding the more exotic perfume, there was still a faint suggestion of the smell of sealing-wax. I examined the ashtray. A match had been lit, the remains of which were still visible. There was also, somewhat to my disappointment, a cigarette-stump which might have accounted for its presence.

"Put my tray down on a chair," I told the waiter. "Don't disturb the other table for a moment. You can come in and fetch the tray when I ring."

The man obeyed orders without any sign of surprise. My hand was straying towards the telephone-receiver, and he knew that I often had private messages. As soon as he had gone, however, I bolted the door and made a brief search in the vicinity of the table where the letters had been. There were distinct spots of sealing-wax upon the floor in several places. I had no longer any doubt that my private communication from M17B had been opened and sealed up again.

I paid a visit to my friend Louis that morning, Louis the patron saint of the Grill Room, and my confederate in many adventures.

I said nothing of my mission until our morning cocktail was gleaming in our glasses and the waiter had disappeared. Even then, I examined the three doorways which led out of the room—the one into the lounge, the one into Louis' bedroom and the one into Julie's quarters. He watched me, amused but perplexed.

"We are perhaps back in the old days when your Englishman wrote that great play 'Diplomacy'," he suggested. "Listeners at every keyhole, the perfume of a lady's handkerchief in a rifled drawer, deciding the fate of a whole continent!"

"Louis." I replied, "you are very much nearer the mark than you imagine. I begin to realise that the game is still played—on the Continent at any rate, if not so much over here. I have to-day been asked by a masseur to allow his sister to wait for him in my sitting-room, and the little cat opened one of my private letters and sealed it up again with a false stamp!"

"This is a serious business of which you speak," Louis said gravely.

"Not so serious as it might have been," I told him. "The letter which the young lady opened was from M17B, and it contained the information that within three days there would arrive a record of important changes in the cipher code between ourselves and Seventy-seven Quay d'Orsay."

"The information was given to you in cipher, the old cipher, I presume?"

"Certainly. But you know how simple it is, Louis. Anyone who had once mastered it could at any rate blunder through the message."

"What are you going to do about it?" he inquired.

"Inform the Chief, of course," I said, "Afterwards I shall toy with the matter."

Louis glanced at me keenly.

"This sister of the Baron's?" he asked.

"Take note that I do not say the most attractive," I replied, "but she is without a doubt the most beautiful woman I ever saw in my life. The Baron confided to me as he punched my ribs this morning that to walk with her in the streets was an annoyance. People stopped upon the pavements and stared."

Louis looked thoughtfully for a minute at the point of his cigarette.

"You know, my dear Captain Lyson," he said, "how great is the confidence I repose in you, but I ask myself whether it is as well for you to take this matter so lightly."

"Louis," I explained, "to put it frankly, we do not get much out of our job. It is ill-paid, at times hopelessly dull, now and then highly dangerous. An odd thrill comes as a surprise. We generally have to be content with sending in reports and letting other people finish the job. I have a fancy that I would like to see the denouement of this one."

"The Department does not like it," Louis reminded me uneasily.


* * * * *

Monday morning at a few minutes before seven-thirty found me with a dressing-gown over my pyjamas, turning over the recently arrived letters in my sitting-room. I turned my head at the soft knocking on the door.

"Come in," I invited.

The Baron and his sister entered. She gave a little start as she saw me sitting there, and it seemed to me that her eyes went swiftly towards the pile of letters in front of me. The Baron appeared disturbed.

For the beneficial application of the massage, Captain Lyson," he warned me, "it is inadvisable to occupy the brain or body first. You permit me to suggest that you preserve the rest of your correspondence."

"Unfortunately," I told him, "I cannot do that. I have a communication of some importance to study here," I went on, tapping a long envelope. "I shall ask you to postpone my massage until to-morrow morning. As I did not let you know—I searched for your address, but it was not upon the card—you will allow me to pay."

I pushed a pound note and a shilling towards him, but he shook his head.

"That I could not accept," he said. "Permit me to come when you change for dinner."

"At half-past seven, then," I said. "You will excuse me now, please. As you see, I am occupied."

They both turned reluctantly away. The girl looked over her shoulder from the door. I waved my hand.

"Good morning, Mademoiselle," I said. "Sorry to hurry you away."

The changed cipher was among my correspondence and I realised at once its importance. It was unlikely that I, personally, should be affected, but, as I had learnt on the previous day, communications were passing every hour between the Quay d'Orsay and Whitehall concerning important affairs in Europe. I locked the papers away in my safe, which I had had removed during the previous day into my bedroom, and made my toilet.

During the morning I went round to Whitehall, and I ascertained that nothing was transpiring which would involve any communications with me. From another branch which I also visited I failed to obtain the slightest, information concerning the Baron or his sister.

"New to the business, I should think," Louis remarked, when I talked to him after lunch. "All the same, if you are sure about the tampering with your official letter, I should report the incident to headquarters and tell your masseur that his ministrations do not suit your health. It is always a dangerous game to play," he went on, "to try to deal with these affairs alone."

"Right, as usual," I acknowledged. Perhaps I was wrong not to have told him that I was expecting the Baron von Corberg at seven-thirty.

Within a few moments of half past seven there came a soft tap at the door. In response to my invitation it was slowly opened and Greta von Corberg entered. I rose to my feet, finding it a difficult matter to conceal my admiration. Her white evening frock was shabby, but seductively fashioned, and her wealth of golden hair was naturally and gracefully arranged.

"Where is your brother?" I asked.

"He is not coming."

"Then why are you here?"

8he closed the door behind her and approached the desk before which I had been seated.

"I am in trouble," she confided. "I have left my brother."

"Why?"

"He has been very unkind," she told me, her beautiful eyes seeking eagerly for mine. "He says that I bungle, that I am fit for nothing. He is very angry."

"Because you left drops of sealing wax all over the place?" I asked.

She stared, momentarily.

"What do you mean by drops of sealing-wax?"

"When you went through my letters the other morning you removed the seal of one envelope and replaced it," I told her. "You were not very careful."

She clasped her hands together.

"It is all new to me," she said. "I did what I was told. I was clumsy. Now Conrad has sent me away."

"What are you going to do?"

"I have come to you," she replied.

"Why?"

"You must take care of me. I will work for you—anyhow you like. I will go on with this stupid spy business if you wish, or I would rather do your letters and type them."

The allurement of her soft voice with its slight foreign accent, the eager pleading of her eyes, were almost Irresistible.

"Thank you," I acknowledged. "I don't keep a seminary for young girls, you know."

She came nearer, and for the life of me I could not have moved. Her arms went, suddenly round my neck.

"Please—"

She was strong—strong as a young lioness—but I too have muscles. Soon I was holding her wrists firmly. She looked at me reproachfully.

"You are hurting," she pleaded. "Please let me go."

I shook my head. She waited eagerly for my words. I was listening, however, to an unusual sound in the next room. Perhaps she heard it too, for she threw herself suddenly into my arms.

"Do not shake your head at me," she begged. "It is not kind that you do that. I am very unhappy. You must be my friend, please, or I do not know what will become of me. Please—please—"

I disengaged myself as gently as possible, and took a step towards my bedroom door.

"No, no!" the called out. "You must not leave me."

"I think," I told her, "that it is almost time I went to see how your brother is getting on in the next room."

"No, no!" she cried passionately. "I will not be left here alone!"

I opened the door and directly I saw what was happening in the bedroom I closed and locked it behind me. The Baron was kneeling before my safe with a huge bunch of keys in his hand.

"No luck, Baron," I remarked pleasantly. "It's a devil of a lock."

He was scared, but he disposed of the keys somewhere in his pocket.

"I come to give you your massage," he said as he rose.

I rang the bell. There was the sound of a key in the lock almost instantly. Inspector Hearnshaw stood upon the threshold. I beckoned him into the room. The Baron stared at him in horror.

"You give me in charge?" he exclaimed in a hurt tone

"Nothing so old-fashioned," I assured him. "Half an hour at the Passport Office, perhaps, a quick train to Southampton and a little voyage back to where you came from, you know, Baron. That's the idea. You will find Mademoiselle in the next room, Hearnshaw."

Hearnshaw was back again in a moment, looking a little perturbed

"The young lady has fainted," he announced. "Better ring for a chambermaid."

The Baron and I hurried in. Greta was stretched across my couch, her arms hanging limply down, her dress disarranged. Her cheeks were ghastly pale.

"Do not be alarmed, Captain Lyson," the Baron enjoined. "That is the best thing that Greta does," he went on.

"Greta, my dear, I fear this gentleman would not leave you here, even if Captain Lyson permitted it. We are to be deported."

To my amazement, she stood up. She resembled a beautiful, sulky child.

"I do not wish to be deported," she protested. "I will do no harm here."

The Baron shook his head sadly. "The gentleman from Scotland Yard would not permit it," he told her. "You have been a foolish girl. We return home."

I pointed to the door, which Hearnshaw was holding open.

"You must go," I said firmly, "and you too, Baron. If you take my advice, you will stick to massage."

He thrust another card into my hand.

"If you are ever abroad," he murmured.</story>