<story title="THE HOUSE OF THE WOMAN OF DEATH" date="1912">
MR. LAXWORTHY sat on the porch of the Paradise Hotel, at Hyères. with his gray shawl arranged as usual about his shoulders, a volume of philosophy upon his knee, a pencil in his hand and a notebook on the small round table by his side. His attention appeared to be entirely absorbed by the volume which lay open upon his knee.

Radiant in her white linen gown and white tam o' shanter, the-American girl came out of the hotel on her way to the golf links. Directly she saw Mr. Laxworthy she made her way to his side.

"Good morning. Mr. Laxworthy," she said amiably.

Mr. Laxworthy slowly turned his head. His reply was perfectly polite, but his tone certainly did not invite overtures. The young lady, however, remained absolutely unconscious of his lack of cordiality.

"I was hoping that I should see you this morning," she remarked, drawing up a chair to his side. There is something I wanted lo ask you."

Mr. Laxworthy gave no evidence of any curiosity.

"It is about Mr. Lenfield," she went on confidentially. "You admitted the other night in those few wonderful words of yours that the poor man who was killed had probably come down here on business connected with Mr. Lenfield. Have you any idea as to the nature of the business which the murdered man might have had with Mr. Lenfield?"

Mr. Laxworthy kept his place with his forefinger and turned his head toward the girl.

"What is your interest in Mr. Lenfield?" he asked.

"Not what you think," she replied. "I was sorry for Mr. Lenfield. I found him very agreeable to talk to, and we are very good friends—"

"Then why not ask him himself?"

Mr. Laxworthy broke in ruthlessly.

"I had intended to," she admitted, "but as a matter of fact I have to play golf this morning at 10 o'clock, and I believe that Mr. Lenfield is leaving for a few days this morning."

Mr. Laxworthy sat quite still for several moments.

"Did he tell you that he was going away?" he asked.

She shook her head.

"I happened to find out quite by accident," she said confidentially, "and to tell you the truth I thought it a little strange he had said nothing to me about it. You know, I have seen a great deal of him since he has been here and when he was quite ill I used to go and sit with him. You can't tell me anything about him, then?" she asked bluntly.

Mr. Laxworthy considered for a moment. "No," he said slowly, "I can tell you nothing about him. At the same time, if you had come to me and told me that your friendship with him was likely to increase rather than diminish, I might have said—"

"Said what?" the girl interrupted eagerly.

"That it was a pity," Mr. Laxworthy replied, turning back to his book.

"Then you do know something," she persisted. "And what is that you have there underneath that ugly volume of yours? A time table, I declare! You don't mean to say that you are going off, too?"

"By no means," Mr. Laxworthy assured her. "This time table I was glancing at merely as a matter of curiosity. I thought it would he interesting to know how long it took to get to Monte Carlo."

"Mr. Lenfield is going to Monte Carlo," she remarked.

Mr. Laxworthy nodded. The affair seemed to be devoid of interest to him.

She moved away, and Mr. Laxworthy returned with a little sigh of relief to his labors. Presently the concierge crossed the threshold of the hotel and came out into the sunshine. Mr. Laxworthy, without appearing to glance up or to interrupt his labors, beckoned him to approach.

"Fritz," he said, "the automobile which Mr. Wing ordered is in waiting?"

"But certainly, sir. It has been here for at least an hour."

"Any one going away by the omnibus this morning?" Mr. Laxworthy asked carelessly.

"Mr. Lenfield and Mr. Hamar, sir," Fritz replied. "They are going on to Monte Carlo for a few days."

About fifty yards away Mr. Lenfield, looking very ghastly and worn, was leaning back in an invalid chair with his friend by his side. Over his shoulder he had glanced more than once at Mr. Laxworthy reading and writing in his corner.

"I can't stand that man," he muttered hoarsely. "There's something about him that paralyses me. He sits and watches and waits like a spider."

His companion laughed.

"That's all rubbish, Philip," he declared. "He did you a good turn the other night anyway."

"A good turn," he. muttered. "How do I know that? The end was very near—the end of the Journey, Hamar. Why not? One wearies these days."

His friend looked at him reproachfully.

"Philip," he protested, "this isn't like you... Brace up! Remember there is work before us. If you can sit here before we start and feel your heart wax faint, what will it be when the time comes?"

The large white motor omnibus came puffing up to the front and was soon crowded with little groups of the guests on their way down to the town. Mr. Hamar and his companion were the only two who had any luggage. The proprietor of the hotel came out to wish them good morning.

"It is only for two or three days," Mr. Hamar declared, shaking hands. "You will see that our rooms are undisturbed? I thought that a flutter at the tables might brighten up our young friend."

The omnibus started off. From behind the glass-enclosed space where Mr. Laxworthy sat taking his sun bath he watched until it became a speck in the distance. Then he carefully closed his volume, put his notebook into his pocket and rose to his feet. As though his doing so were some sort of a signal his two friends suddenly appeared upon th< scene.

"So our friends have gone to Monte Carlo to try the tables," Forrest Anderson said thoughtfully.

Mr. Laxworthy looked at the little cloud of dust, now faint in the distance.

"They are gone. I think," he murmured, "to play for larger stakes than Monte Carlo knows of. Is everything ready?"

Sydney Wing nodded and passed through the swing doors on his way to the back of the hotel. A few moments later he reappeared in the avenue, driving a large and handsome touring car, which he piloted to the front of the hotel. Mr. Laxworthy permitted himself to be wrapped in a fur coat, although he still insisted upon the shawl around his shoulders.

* * * * *

M. Renaultin, real estate agent, lessor of villas—furnished or unfurnished—auctioneer and valuer, closed his ledger that morning with a little sigh.

He had carefully closed the door and was standing upon the step leading into his office when a great touring car came haltingly along the street, the driver looking from left to right.

M. Renaultin was immediately upon the alert. A direction was almost equivalent to an introduction; an introduction might lead to business.

"The gentlemen desire?" he asked.

"This is M. Renaultin?" Sydney inquired, raisins his cap.

M. Renaultin swept the pavement with his own hat.

"But certainly!"

"We wish to inquire about a villa," Sydney announced.

M. Renaultin was instantly at his best The three Englishmen were ushered into his office and comfortably seated in the only three safe chairs.

Photographs drawn eagerly from a large portfolio were passed from hand to hand. Prices, accommodation, location were described with picturesque and ample detail, with eloquence impossible to reproduce.

The three men listened, appreciative but silent. One photograph which Monsieur Renaultin had been on the point of handing out he retained in his hand.

Mr. Laxworthy, who had said little, leaned over-and looked at it.

"It is strange, this location," he remarked. "It looks as though it were built into the sea."

"It is the Villa de Cap Frinet," Mon-sieur Renaultin explained. "It is reached only from the mainland by a narrow strip of sand; at high tide no more than a passage; beautiful, as monsieur sees; unfortunately not to let at present."

"I like the appearance of the place," Mr. Laxworthy said, "Do I understand that it is let for the whole season?"

Monsieur Renaultin was disconsolate.

"A month ago, monsieur," he declared. "I let it for three months. Curiously enough, although I have received the rent the tenants have not yet, to the best of my belief, taken possession. They are expected now, I hear, every day."

"It is let to some English people perhaps?" Mr. Laxworthy inquired.

"Who can tell?" Monsieur Renaultin replied enigmatically. "You English nowadays speak all languages so perfectly. The lady who took it spoke French. There was a trifle of accent, perhaps, but not sufficient to determine her nationality.

"Is the name a secret?" Anderson asked. "The villa rather takes my fancy too."

"By no means, gentlemen," Monsieur Renaultin assured them. "The name of the lady was Madame Lalchenon. If monsieur is curious, there is this to be told: She was, I should say, a Jewess. However, the villa is let. Monsieur permits me to draw his attention to the most charming and desirable residence upon the whole Riviera, one mile from San Raphael; a perfect gem."

They listened, hot it was obvious, however, that the three men were no longer deeply interested. Mr. Laxworthy, upon some excuse or another, pressed a fee into the hand of the reluctant agent and took particulars of two of the most desirable villas.

"In a day or two," he declared, "we shall return. In the meantime we will glance at these places on our way to Monte Carlo. You might also give me a card to view the Villa de Cap Frinet. It is possible that the tenants may not stay longer than the three months. I myself am likely to remain here until June."

Monsieur Renaultin acquiesced promptly and made out the cards.

In less than an hour they were compelled to slacken their pace. They were on a road now of wonderful curves; and every few moments brought them to the very edge of the Mediterranean. They skirted little sandy bays, where brown faced fishermen gased at them with the stolid wonder of their class. Then the ear came to a standstill. Before them was a little avenue with a locked iron gate and painted upon the wall:

"VILLA DE CAP FRINET"

"It is here," Mr. Laxworthy announced.

They did not at once descend. Mr. Laxworthy seemed to be making observations of the locality. Presently he pointed to a hill a short distance ahead.

"We will ascend," he said, "There we can judge."

The car shot forward, In a few minutes they gained the summit of a steep ascent From there, looking downward, they could see the villa itself —a strange little white building which seemed, indeed, as though it had risen like a shell from the sea, with a green veranda, which almost encircled it.

"Let us consider," Mr. Laxworthy said softly. "We are moving a little in the clouds. A false step just now might result in serious inconvenience to all of us."

Anderson, who had been gazing at the villa through a pair of small field glasses, laid them down.

"I am convinced," he declared, "that at present at any rate, the place is empty."

"It has that appearance," Mr. Laxworthy admitted; "and yet to-day is the twelfth of February. To-night should he the night of the great appointment We know well that yesterday afternoon Mme. Lalchenon played baccarat in the sporting club at Monte Carlo. We also know that our friends left Hyères this morning, so the meeting place cannot be far distant.

"To reach here, they would have to go to Cannes and return. My idea is that Cannes was the meeting place; that from there they would motor here. On that assumption they cannot arrive for two hours and a half one would imagine that the others would come from Marseilles."

8ydney was listening with knitted brows.

"It is all rather guesswork. Isn't it?" he remarked. "It seems as though we were stepping into a big thing blind-folded."

"It is my principle," Mr. Laxworthy continued, "to proceed always upon assumptions, provided those assumptions are logical and carefully thought out. I propose, therefore, having this card to view the villa which we procured from M. Renaultin, that we forthwith make an inspection of the place. There can be no harm in that nor very much risk."

Sydney backed the car, and they glided down the hfil to the iron gate. The padlock resisted their efforts to enter; but Mr. Laxworthy, with a curious little instrument which he took from his pocket, carefully picked the lock. He examined the ground closely.

"At any rate," ha said, "no one has passed in by this entrance for several days."

The descent was almost perpendicular, down a narrow and curving driveway, on either side of which were thickly growing shrubs and trees, which formed almost an arch over their heads.

"At night this will be as black as the Styx," Sydney murmured.

"So much the better," Mr. Laxworthy assented. "It is a veritable tunnel."

They came suddenly out into the sunshine. The garden was a tangled wilderness of beauty. Mimosa and climbing roses had run riot about the place. Nowhere was there a sign of any human being. They moved on across the overgrown lawn until they reached the water's edge. They were separated now from the villa only by that tittle strip of passageway. Mr. Laxworthy held up his hand.

"Be silent!" he ordered.

There was something a little ominous in his tone. They remained perfectly motionless, still partially obscured beneath the grove of oleanders which fringed the bay. Peering through the leaves Mr. Laxworthy stood like a figure of stone, with his eyes upon the villa.

"There is some one there," he said at last softly.

"There is no other entrance," Sydney whispered.

Mr. Laxworthy inclined his head a little on one side. They saw then the stern of a small, petrol-driven launch anchored on the other side of the villa, so close under the walls that it had been invisible from the hill.

"It is not only that" Mr. Laxworthy murmured. "Listen!"

They all listened intently. The air seemed full of the repose of afternoon. Little waves, which were scarcely more than a tremor, broke upon the thin line of shingle. A few bees were humming, but the place was empty of birds. The background of silence was almost unnatural. And then they all heard the sound which had first been heard only by Mr. Laxworthy—the faint low moaning of a human being in pain or terror.

"We are too late!" Anderson muttered.

Mr. Laxworthy shook his head.

"It is never too late. Come!"

He straightened himself and brushed away the protecting branches of the oleanders. Then he drew his gray shawl closely around his shoulders and stepped casually along toward that narrow footpath. With his hand upon the rail he stopped and turned to his companions.

"Everything about this place," he declared enthusiastically, "favors one's desire for seclusion. Think how one could work among such surroundings! Who could there be to disturb one! What unwelcome visitors, indeed, could find one out in such a paradise!"

They took his cue and chattered lightly, but Anderson was a little pale beneath his healthy tan, and the fingers which held the match to Sydney's cigarette distinctly shook. Mr. Laxworthy stepped leisurely along the narrow path. If he saw the white face suddenly flash behind the window pane he took no notice.

"Have you said your prayers?" Sydney murmured to Anderson.

Anderson shrugged his shoulders.

"I expect to hear the bullets whiz at any moment" he replied. "But what can one do? The chief knows."

At the end of the narrow walk they stood literally upon the rock. Here and there were little clefts filled up with green and planted with scarlet geraniums. Immediately in front of them was a broad veranda which encircled the whole of the villa. There were indications that the forma] entrance was on the other side, Mr. Laxworthy paused to look around him.

"This," he declared, "is perfectly delightful. I wonder if by any chance it would be possible to get inside. Try that window, Sydney."

The young man's hand was already outstretched toward the fastening. Suddenly he stood as though transfixed. Ho one moved. Distinctly from the other aide of the house came the unmistakable sound of a petrol engine.

"They are off, by heaven!" Anderson muttered.

Mr. Laxworthy led the way around the veranda to the front, A dozen yards already from the landing stage a man was bending over the wheel of a low, petrol-driven launch. He turned his head to look at them, and even Mr. Laxworthy gave a little cry. The man'a face was obscured by a black mask; he was wrapped from head to foot in a white linen duster. It was impossible even to guess what manner of person he might be.

Already the foam was flying into the air as he gathered speed. He turned round and, holding the wheel still in his left hand, raised his right hand to the skies. He ignored altogether the three men who stood watching him. His eyes sought an open window.

"My word!" he cried. "I have kept my word! You hear, Rachael?"

There was no sound save the beating of the engine of his boat The three men stood gazing at him from the balcony. And then they heard suddenly the crash of breaking glass above them. Splinters of it fell all around.

They looked upward. Through a great jagged space in the window of the room above a woman seemed to have dragged herself upon her side. She lay there, raised a little on her left hand, while with her right she lifted a long, strange-looking pistol to a resting place on the fancy Ironwork of the balcony.

"And what about mine, Henri?" she cried.

There was a blinding flash, a sharp, metallic report and the dull spit of a bullet in the waves. The man gave a cry and crouched over his wheel. Again and again came the report and the flash.

"By heaven, she's hit him!" Sydney whispered hoarsely!

The man gave suddenly a hideous start. Quivering all over, he fell back from his wheeL The boat swung round before he could grip it again. The woman's teeth were parted; her face was set in awful lines; her eyes looked steadily from the end of the barrel of her pistol toward the man at whom she fired.

"Twelve more!" she cried. "Good-by. Henri. This is the end. I kiss the bullet"

The man in the boat half jumped up, and again he was hit. He staggered, lost his balance and fell over with a cry.

Sydney tore off his coat and waistcoat. The woman looked down and it seemed as though she had seen them for the first time. She was laughing. She leaned over the balcony and her voice was soft.

"Do not be foolish, young English gentleman," she called out. "He is dead—dead in many places. Would you dive fifty feet for a corpse? Come up here and I wfll show you something."

"It is Rachael," Mr. Laxworthy whispered. "She is right, Sydney. The man is scarcely worth saving. Let him alone. Come!"

They found the door of the villa open. The little hall inside was all confusion, as though some sort of struggle had taken place there. They mounted the stairs. On the threshold of the front room Sydney, who was leading, hesitated.

"It is Rachael herself," he muttered. The woman of death!"

Mr. Laxworthy pushed by.

"She will not hurt us," he said.

He threw the door open. The woman was still half crouching upon the floor. Her legs were tied together with rope, the end of which was attached to the bedpost One arm was bleeding with the effort she had made to disengage herself. Nothing remained of that terrible expression with which she had gazed across the bay. She welcomed them with a soft, almost an inviting smile. The pistol lay smoking upon the carpet by her side.

"My friends," she said, "your arrival is opportune. I am very glad to see you. You wish to take a villa, perhaps? I see the card in your hand. It is an admirable residence, this—a tranquil, idyllic spot where nothing happens, where one may rest as he will rest."

8he pointed toward the sea. Mr. Laxworthy came over and cut the cords from about her feet He looked around the room.

"Madame," he remarked, with a shrug of the shoulders, "you pay your debts in full."

"Monsieur," she answered, "it is the custom of my race. If you are among those in whose blood is the love of adventure, although indeed you do not seem of that kind, stay with me here for a little while and you shall se other things."

"Thank you," Mr. Laxworthy replied, "we are peaceful Englishmen looking for a villa."

"You lie," she answered. "You are Mr. John T. Laxworthy, the man of peculiar gifts."

"Dear me!" Mr. Laxworthy exclaimed. "You seem to me to be a remarkably well-informed young woman."

She laughed softly. She was standing up now, but she was pale. Anderson was binding her arms with his own handkerchief.

"Listen," she said. "You have seen the beginning of a tragedy. I owe you something, perhaps, for your timely Appearance. You are a man, and one can trust men. Stay here then with me and watch for the second part."

"Madame," Mr. Laxworthy replied, "I do not doubt your hospitable instinct, but your method of ridding yourself of undesirable guests appears to me a little arbitrary. I am not sure whether from your point of view or from the point of view of those whom we meet here to-night we ourselves might not be considered a little de trop."

She held out her hand.

"Monsieur," she announced. "I am Rachael. I am not like that man who lies at the bottom of the sea. I have my friends and my enemies, and they know it.

"I offer you the chance of your lifetime. To-night there will meet the man whose deeds less than a year ago set all London in a panic and the bloodhounds, who have never been wholly off his track. They meet here, and in this spot it should be worth seeing.

"Stay then with me. From now until night there is truce between us, if you accept it. After that who shall say?"

Mr. Laxworthy removed his shawl.

"Madame," he replied, "it would give my friends and myself much pleasure to accept the hospitality of your villa for a short time. We have a motor car outside. Might I suggest that we spend some of the time before evening in taking you with us to San Raphael. There is an agreeable hotel there, and madame must dine."

She swept him a little curtsy.

"Monsieur," she said. "I can assure you that there are other things I can do besides revenge my wrongs. I make an omelette aux tomates. I roast a chicken as few others. I mix a salad dressing which is immortal, and you will find from my sideboard that my taste in champagne is unexceptionable."

Mr. Laxworthy permitted himself smile.

"Madame," he declared, "your invitation is too piquant. I speak for myself and my friends. We accept with pleasure your charming invitation. And the meantime—"

He stooped and picked up the pistol. With deft fingers he withdrew the cartridges. She smiled at him.

"Monsieur," she said, "until to-night it is yours."</story>