<story title="MURDER AT THE MILAN" date="1938">
REGGIE gave me rather a shock when he made his casual announcement.

"As a matter of fact, I didn't come in to see you, old chap," he observed, "I am dining with that charming girl, Julie."

"The devil you are!" I exclaimed, genuinely startled "When did you fix that up?"

"I saw her in the lounge last night at supper time," my younger brother explained straightening his tie before my mirror. "Jove! She did look pretty, too. We got talking and I asked her if she'd dine to-night. I was afraid she wouldn't—those French girls have such queer ideas about that sort of thing, she said 'Yes' like a shot. I'm to meet her down below in about ten minutes."

I suppose I showed that I was a little surprised. Reggie, who was now engaged in mixing himself a cocktail on my sideboard, looked round.

"Nothing against it, is there, Charles?" he asked. "Of course I know old Louis is only a maître d'hôtel and that, but the girl is quite presentable and this is the Bohemian side of London, anyway."

"You infernal young cub!" I answered indignantly. "Of course there is nothing against it, if she's willing."

"Well, after all," Reggie went on, lighting a cigarette, "her father is maître d'hôtel here, isn't he?"

"He has an important position in the hotel management," I replied. "He could be a director any day, if he chose. Apart from that, he was well educated, he comes of an excellent family of its sort and his girl has been strictly brought up. There's no reason in the world why anyone should not dine with her. Louis is one of my particular friends. There is no one for whom I have a greater regard."

"You're not sweet on the girl yourself are you, Charles?" the young man asked.

"I happen to be nearly twenty years older than she is," I replied stiffly. "Besides--"

The telephone-bell rang. It was Louis speaking at the other end.

"I should like you to come down. Lyson," he said. "I am about to receive a visit which puzzles me a little, from a man who puzzles me a great deal. There is an affair which might develop."

"I'll be down in thirty seconds." I promised him.

I hung up the receiver.

"Well, you go to your dinner, old man." I told Reggie, "but remember--no playing about with that young woman. She wouldn't understand it anyway, and another thing--well. I have Just told you that her father is a great friend of mine--"

"I say, you are not suggesting--" my brother began in an aggrieved tone.

"Shut up!" I told him rather irritably. "I know what you young men on leave from Sandhurst are like. You get above yourselves sometimes. You can't help it--that's why I have given you a word of warning...See you later."

I left him there and hurried down from my seventh-floor flat in the Milan Court. I saw Julie sitting in a corner of the lounge looking, even to my prejudiced Judgment, extraordinarily pretty. She waved her hand to me, but made no movement when I crossed the little hall and made my way to her flat. As a rule she was there ready to welcome me if I paid a visit before going in to dinner. Louis' voice bade me enter. I found him apparently on the point of leaving to take up his accustomed position in the Grill Room. He looked at me curiously.

"You were up late last night, mon capitaine?" he asked.

I shook my head.

"Nothing to confess," I assured him. "I went to the ballet with my young brother. He joined a party of young friends here for supper and I went to bed. To-day I have had three games of squash with the professional, and here I am. As a matter of fact, I'm in the pink. What is the trouble?"

"It is not exactly trouble," Louis replied, "but one of the most extraordinary men in Europe, who some years ago seemed likely to become one of the most famous, has arrived in London. I heard from Scotland Yard that he was expected. He has telephoned for a table tonight. They brought me word, and I replied that we were full. Since then he has telephoned again and I gather that he is on his way here."

"Who is he?" I asked.

"Keretsky," Louis confided. "One of the mystery men of the world. Ten years ago, after he had been absolutely nominated dictator of Russia, he suddenly dropped out of life, and all that we know about him lately is that he has been paying frequent visits to Trotsky in Norway. The Moscow authorities seem to have got it into their heads that he is planning to get back to Russia and that he is concerned in a plot to upset the present regime and to occupy the post he ought to have taken years ago.

"There has been very little about it in the Press, but M17B have definite information that an attempt was made upon his life three weeks ago."

"I heard about that," I confided. "The young Russian who told me was terribly excited. He seems to have looked upon Keretsky as Russia's one hope of salvation."

"I do not understand the politics of Russia," Louis remarked, "nor, I imagine, does anyone else, but I do know that the hotel authorities here want to keep out of anything in the shape of trouble, and when he applied to the hotel for a room there was nothing doing."

"Supposing he turned 'up now. What are you going to do about it?" I asked. "At the present moment there are dozens of unoccupied tables."

"I shall have to persuade him to go away quietly," Louis replied. "If he is a man of common sense he will see the importance of doing so. London just now is full of commercial envoys who favor the present regime, and if Keretsky escaped assassination--and M17B have reason to believe that he is in danger of that--if he were involved in any sort of a disturbance, that would suit them just as well. He would be deported and never heard of again."

"Do you know him by sight?" I asked.

Louis shook his head.

"I have never even seen a picture of him," he replied. "I sent for you, Captain, because there is no harm in showing you his record presently and I know it will interest you even to catch a glimpse of a man who has lived such a life."

"What if he comes in now, makes his way to an empty table, and sits down?" I asked.

Louis smiled.

"He would not be allowed to remain there," he replied. "I have brought Jose up to the main entrance and Marco is looking after the far side."

There was a tap at the door. In response to Louis' invitation it was thrown open and Jose, our giant maître d'hôtel who acted as unofficial watchman over the place, and who had only lately been a famous Hungarian wrestler, made his appearance, ushering in a stranger.

"This gentleman requires a table in the Grill Room for dinner, Monsieur Louis," he announced. "I have explained that we are full up tonight."

Even Louis, the man of infinite savoir-faire, found no words for a moment. Neither could I do anything but stare. I thought of that long record of crime and fierce, lustful adventure at which a certain section of the Press had always hinted, and I gazed incredulously at the pale-faced little man of studious appearance, with bent shoulders and the ingenuous expression of a child, who had crossed the threshold carrying his black Homburg hat in his hand. His hair was silvery white; his eyes, disguised under thick spectacles, were still obviously blue; his legs and arms seemed to be the limbs of a schoolboy; his mouth the wistful, sensitive mouth of an elderly lady used to the gentler walks of life. Of necessity, it was he who spoke first, for neither Louis nor I could find words.

"My name is Paul Keretsky," he announced, addressing himself to Louis. "I am very disappointed that there is difficulty about a small table for me. I have made an appointment to meet a friend here and I have long wished to find myself in this famous restaurant and to make the acquaintance," he added, "of its director."

Louis' manner was more than courteous. He was almost kind.

"I am sorry, Monsieur Keretsky," he said, "but we have a very large clientele here--a regular clientele who use the place as a club and come from day to day. With them and the guests who are staying in the hotel, whom we have to consider, we are always over-full."

The visitor smiled a little pathetically.

"I am not a very large person," he said, "neither is the guest whom I am expecting. We are not people of fashion, and an out-of-the-way corner would content us."

"Monsieur Keretsky," Louis explained, "in this matter I am not entirely my own master. We have a good many kind friends who like to take their meals here in peace, and who do not wish to be confronted with unusual patronage. The last time you entered an hotel in Warsaw, for instance--"

"But I can assure you that in that case I was guiltless," the little man interrupted eagerly. "In Warsaw they were afraid of me because of certain information which had come into my possession, and the man whom I shot had been sent from Russia with instructions that I was to be made away with at the first opportunity. He missed me with his first cartridge, and naturally I shot him. Would you have had me submit myself to death at the hands of an assassin? A weakly man like me must protect himself."

Louis coughed.

"You will understand, Monsieur Keretsky," he said, "however much you may have been in the right, a visitor who is likely to have murderers upon his track is not a desirable visitor in any hotel or restaurant."

The white-haired little old gentleman seemed almost on the point of bursting into tears. He restrained himself, however.

"I make enemies," he complained, "because I have genius and read the secrets of many men without rifling despatch boxes or corrupting their secretaries. I know that I carry with me a great deal of dangerous knowledge. I make no use of it, however. If I take my own risks, is there any reason why I should be shut off from communion with my fellows?"

"I am not your judge," Louis replied, "but I do not wish you in my Grill Room. You must dine elsewhere, if you please."

For a moment or two our visitor seemed plunged in the depths of dejection, then apparently he resigned himself.

"What about the companion who may arrive at any time between now and seven o'clock?" he asked.

"You can leave a message," Louis suggested. "We will tell your friend where to find you."

"It is a lady," he confessed a little hesitatingly. "May I sit and watch for her in your small lounge here?"

Louis seemed to consider the matter.

"Will you give me your word, Monsieur Keretsky," he asked, "that you are not carrying any form of weapon?"

Keretsky shrugged his shoulders.

"Monsieur Louis," he said. "I do not tell falsehoods. I know that my life is in continual peril. I sleep with a revolver under my pillow and never move without it when I leave my room. It is in my hip pocket at the present moment."

"If you like to leave it in my keeping," Louis proposed, "you may wait until your friend arrives, on condition that you take her away at once, without offering her a cocktail and without any attempt to enter the Grill Room."

The unwanted visitor drew himself up in dignified fashion.

"You are asking me to place my life in the hands of my enemies, Monsieur Louis," he pointed out. "I will not consent."

"Then if you leave the lady's name here, she shall be told," Louis suggested.

"The lady's name may not be mentioned," was the quiet reply.

He drew a plain leather case from his pocket.

"If your decision is fixed, Monsieur Louis," he said, "I will ask you to send one of your men to intercept the lady whose portrait is here. She will need only to be told that I have returned to my rooms in Number Five, Barrymore Gardens, Bloomsbury. She will understand."

"And this little picture?" Louis asked, with the case already in his hand.

"It can be returned to her," Keretsky replied.

"Your commission shall be accomplished." Louis promised.

The little man made a bow to both of us--a gesture not devoid of dignity.

"I wish you good evening, gentlemen," he said and, escorted by Jose took his leave. Louis was a man almost without personal curiosity He passed me the case without opening it.

"Would it amuse you to await the arrival--if she ever comes--of this lady?" he asked.

I stretched out my hand and tool it into my keeping.

"Delighted," I acquiesced. "I'll report later."

I took up my position in a corner of the lounge facing the entrance, ordered a cocktail and, glancing round to be assured that no unattended young woman was about, I opened the case.

I don't remember that the picture at which I glanced had any striking effect upon me during those first few moments. I simply visualised it as the portrait of a young woman of attractive appearance, with mystery in her face--mystery and repressed humor--and a provocative curl to her lips. Her hair was brushed back from her forehead and apparently arranged in plaits behind.

I gathered that she was fair. It was obvious that she must be beautiful. I closed the case with a snap and glanced around. There was certainly nobody in the lounge who resembled in the least degree the picture of Keretsky's friend.

My cocktail arrived. I sipped it and lit a cigarette, then I yielded to a sudden impulse and opened the case again. This time I studied the face more carefully and the longer I looked the more I was conscious of that curious little emotion, which must have been born at my first glance.

No one could say from such a rudely executed portrait whether the girl was beautiful or not, but one thing was certain. She was unusual; she was exciting; she was full of humanity.

I raised my glass to my lips with my right hand and drained its contents. All the time, I held the portrait in my left hand and my eyes never wandered from it. I don't remember whether it was seconds or minutes that I sat there studying it. Suddenly, I was conscious of a curious little waft of perfume--something that reminded me dimly of the East, of scented green tea and japonica lily. I realised that someone was standing before my chair. I sprang to my feet I was standing face to face with the original of the portrait.

"You will forgive me," she said, speaking in a very pleasant voice with some trace of a foreign accent, "but I find you looking at a picture which belongs to my uncle--a picture of me, and my uncle is not here. I feel that you may have perhaps some message, yes?"

"You will forgive me," I begged. "I was so interested in looking at the picture that I forgot to look out for the original."

"An excellent excuse," she murmured; "but why were you looking for me?"

"Your uncle found himself unable to dine here," I explained. "He asked that someone should await your arrival and tell you that he had returned to Number Five, Barrymore Gardens, Bloomsbury."

She was clearly disappointed.

"I wanted so much to sit in that Grill Room," she sighed, looking through the plate-glass windows. "Will you tell me, sir, please, how it comes about that you are the bearer of his message?"

"Allow me to introduce myself," I begged. "I am Captain Lyson, retired, late of the Grenadier Guards, and at present of no occupation. I am a great friend of Louis, the maître d'hôtel here, and I chanced to be in his office when Mr. Keretsky was brought in. Louis explained that every table in the restaurant was taken and your uncle asked that someone should keep a look-out for you and deliver the message."

"I do not quite understand why you were selected, though," the girl remarked curiously.

"I volunteered. I was meaning to dine here anyhow, and to sit in the lounge and drink a cocktail, so it was a simple thing to do. I have been amply rewarded."

She looked at me with a little twitch at the corners of her lips.

"Is that a truthful speech?" she asked.

"It is the truth," I assured her. "By the by, may I not offer you a cocktail?"

She uttered a little exclamation of relief. I drew up another chair to the table and she sat down.

"I was hoping so much that you would take pity on me," she said smilingly. "I should like, if you please, a Kirsch and bitters."

I ordered the concoction, and another dry Martini for myself. She seemed a little amused at the situation. She was entirely without any awkwardness.

"This," she said, as she toyed with the small biscuits which I had ordered, "is very much pleasanter than turning away from that inhospitable door and pushing my way through the crowds back to Bloomsbury."

"It is also very much more agreeable for me," I ventured, "than to have taken my cocktail alone."

"You live here?" she asked.

"I have a very small flat on the seventh floor in the Court," I told her, "up in the attic almost."

"Then you are very fortunate," she said slowly. "I have not been inside, but everyone tells me this is one of the few places in London that preserves an atmosphere."

I thought of Louis, I thought of Jose, I thought of the directors of the hotel, and I didn't care a rap.

"It would be possible for you to see more of it if you are really curious," I suggested.

"How?" she asked promptly.

"If you will give me the pleasure of dining with me."

Suddenly I saw that she had beautiful soft hazel-green eyes--hazel which matched the beautiful sheen of her hair.

"But you mean it?" she cried Joyfully.

"I am a little shabby," she confessed, looking up at me, "is it not so? I have better clothes which I would have worn if I had known it was to be with you and not my uncle that I was to dine."

I said one of those absurd things that men do say on those occasions and she laughed gaily into my face.

"But this mighty autocrat of yours--Louis?" she asked "Will he allow me to enter?"

I quaked inwardly, but with her eyes upon me I flouted this suggestion.

"Louis would never take exception to a guest of mine." I assured her.

She finished her cocktail.

"Let us then explore." she proposed.

I rose with well-simulated courage and led her into the room. Louis behaved just as I knew he would. His eyebrows were slightly raised as I passed his desk, and he directed one swift, searching glance at my companion. Afterwards, however, the customary smile of welcome lightened his face. We passed the rostrum and I conducted my guest to my table, placing her in the seat which I usually occupied, from which one had a very fair view of the room.

"But I do think that this is marvellous," she said, in her slow, deliberately spoken English. "I am happy to be here, Captain Lyson. You have been very kind to me, a stranger."

"I should like," I said with a smile, "to be a stranger no longer."

She looked puzzled for a moment, then a dazzling smile broke over her face. No wonder she was attracting so much attention. Notwithstanding her clothes, and the somewhat careless arrangement of her hair, she was beautiful.

"You wish to know my name!" she exclaimed. "Indeed you shall, I am called Nadine and I come from the wild country of Georgia. In my own land I am called differently. Here I am Miss Collitzoff."

She ordered dinner, and I noticed that it was Jose who made a sudden appearance at our table and took the order. He avoided my eye. I had an idea that I was in disgrace. Only a few tables away, Julie was sitting with my young brother. My companion ordered caviare with iced vodka, lobster cooked in some fashion of which I had never heard, but which Jose seemed to understand, and a salad of mixed fruit and vegetables.

"And to drink?" I inquired.

"Might I," she begged, "could I have just two glasses of champagne? Since this is to be a fete day dinner, I do as you desire. I ask for things I like most."

"That pleases me," I assured her. I ordered a half bottle of Bollinger, a plain lobster, and some cold meat for myself, with a whisky and soda. Then she leaned back in her chair and began the serious business of gratifying her curiosity by looking about her. Soon I heard a little gurgling cry. Her dark eyebrows, so curious and yet attractive a contrast to her hair, were drawn together, her mouth had hardened, there was a cold, angry light in her eyes. She counted rapidly.

"The seventh table from here under the window," she pointed out. "The dark man with the loose face and shining clothes. He is my uncle's enemy. It is he who has sworn to get him back into Russia, knowing very well that if he ever crosses the frontier he passes to his death."

"A nasty piece of work." I observed. "Who is he?"

"In the world he comes from there are no names," she said. "He is Number Nine. His task in life is only finished when my uncle leaves it."

The service of dinner began and, from whatever shadowy and mysterious past my companion had emerged, she seemed to forget all her troubles when she heard the tinkle of the ice in her glass of vodka.

After all, I told myself, although without conviction, I was behaving like an impulsive fool. I had known a moment of madness and given in to it. She belonged to that very different world which Louis, with excellent reasons, was determined should find no footing in his restaurant. I looked at the man. He was a gross, unpleasant brute.

Dinner drew towards a close. My companion had reached the stage of drinking her coffee, and sipping a Kirsch liqueur. Conversation with her had not been easy. All the time her thoughts had seemed a little far away. Suddenly she turned towards me and laid her beautiful fingers upon my wrist.

"Captain Lyson," she said. "I do thank you very sincerely for the best dinner I have eaten for very many years. It was so wonderful. You may think I am greedy?"

"On the contrary," I insisted, "I admire your epicurean taste in eating and drinking. I think it is a gift to be cultivated."

She smiled and she patted my wrist again almost caressingly.

"You are a nice man," she said. "If I knew you more, I should like you very much. I think perhaps I was very careful about my dinner tonight because it will probably be my last. I am afraid that you will think me very ungrateful, because what I shall do will not please you."

Her other hand had been wandering in her bag. She withdrew it with a quick motion, but it seemed to me that the bag had a shrunken appearance. There was no sort of farewell from her, simply one haunting look, the glimmer of a smile. She walked down the narrow carpeted avenue between the tables, and reached her destination before I could rise to my feet. She was standing in front of the stout man with the loose face and the sneering mouth almost before I realised that she had left me.

He saw her coming, but his only movement was to shrink a little back in his place. He called out one monosyllable in a language I knew nothing of and then once, twice, there came the smothered, almost velvety report of a silenced revolver. A spasm seemed to pass down his frame as he fell all on one side.

It seemed to me in those few seconds that worse things were happening, for I saw her deliberately turn and point the revolver to her left side. As she did it, however, Jose towered over her. He caught her wrist. The weapon fell noiselessly to the carpeted floor. Above the tumult of voices, I heard her reproachful cry as she realised that she was in the hands of a giant.

"That was not kind of you."

It was much later that night before I saw Louis. I was tired out in body and mind when I returned from my evening's pilgrimage, but I went straight to his room. He was engaged, the little maid told me, in making out his sheet for the evening. Louis looked up from his task. His face was inscrutable.

"I am sorry, Louis," I said simply. "Of course I ought to have just given the girl the message and left. You see I didn't. Unfortunately, I invited her to dinner."

"Would it be an impertinence," Louis inquired, "If I were to ask you why?"

"Not in the least," I assured him. "I asked her because I have Very seldom in my life met a woman who made such an impression on me. I obeyed an irresistible impulse. All I can say is that I am sorry."

Louis remained tantalisingly not committal.

"Might I ask what has become of the young lady?" he inquired.

"She is in prison," I confided. "They declined to let me see he but they assured me that friends were already at work and her lawyer was engaged."

"Dear me," Louis observed. "You are very much behind the times Captain Lyson. It appears that I know more than you."

He took pity upon my obvious eagerness and went on:

"They have found plenty of proof already that the dead man is one of the worst of the Russian Communist spies who ever set foot it this country. They have already deciphered his instructions, which were that he should not leave the country until he had disposed of Keretsky."

"Then, if she had not shot him--?" I began eagerly.

"Quite so," Louis agreed. "If she had not shot him, he would have killed her uncle on sight. I might perhaps have been a little more frank with you, for I knew something of this, and it was one of the reasons why I refused to let Keretsky have a table."

"What will happen to her, then?"

I asked.

"Very little--if anything," Louis replied. "She is an aristocrat with important connections in Paris. She will undergo a nominal imprisonment and be deported."

The old sympathetic gleam was shining out of Louis' pleasant brown eyes.

"I have not yet had an opportunity of telling you," he continued, "that if I had been in your position to-night I should have done precisely what you did."

He spoke down a tube to one of his maîtres d'hôtel.

"Two champagne cocktail at once," he ordered.

"For you and me?" I gasped.

"To drink the health," Louis said with a smile, "of Paul Keretsky and La Belle incognita."</story>