<story title="MYSTERY HOUSE" date="1912">
"SINCE you went away from Hyères," the American girl declared when she met him upon his return, "we have been very dull."

"You flatter me," Mr. Laxworthy murmured.

She shook her head.

"It is not you that we have missed," she admitted frankly, "so much as events. Nothing has happened—at least in the hotel. You read papers, I suppose?"

"Never!" Mr. Laxworthy declared firmly.

"You strange person!" she murmured. "No end of things have taken place along the coast. The chief of the terrible band of anarchists who made such a sensation in London a year ago was run to earth at a little villa near San Raphael here and blew up himself and his wife and confederate with a bomb."

"Dear me!" Mr. Laxworthy remarked.

"Then," she continued, "the papers were full of all sorts of extraordinary rumors about a very clever swindler who pretended he was the Prince of Liguria and won a fortune at a private house at Monte Carlo. He was discovered and forced to restore every penny."

"Anything else?" Mr. Laxworthy inquired.

"Nothing else," she replied, "except that I have been hoping you would re-turn every day."

"You will turn my head," Mr. Laxworthy murmured.

She looked at him much more seriously than usual.

"It is not for any personal reason that I am glad to see you," she asserted. "It is because there is something going on here which I do not understand."

Mr. Laxworthy glanced at the volume which lay upon his knee.

"Has Mr. Lenfield withdrawn his attentions or are all these new admirers of yours becoming troublesome?"

"Mr. Lenfield," she replied, "has scarcely spoken to any one since he returned from his expedition to Monte Carlo. I think that he was taken ill on the way. Would you mind talking seriously with me for three minutes?" she begged.

Mr. Laxworthy closed his book and folded his arms.

"You remember Mr. Freeling Poignton?"

"Perfectly. He is a multimillionaire.

"He borrowed two francs from me to pay the omnibus the other day and has forgotten to repay it. It is a little habit with multimillionaires!

"You also remember the Marquis Lefant? Well, the Marquis and Mr. Freeling Poignton were here together. Last week the Marquis left. The moment he left Mr. Lenfield and Mr. Freeling Poignton became inseparable."

"A strange combination," Mr. Laxworthy said thoughtfully.

"A few days ago," she went on, "they took the manager's villa in the grounds there. They found their rooms in the hotel uncomfortable for some reason or another."

Mr. Laxworthy followed the direction which she indicated. The villa was a small graystone building situated in the woods two or three hundred yards away.

"It seems an odd friendship," Mr. Laxworthy remarked, "but in other respects it is quite a sensible proceeding. Mr. Poignton has his own servants of course, so they are independent of the hotel."

The American girl frowned.

"I suppose you are going to think me a shocking busybody," she said. "Very well. The day after they moved in neither of them turned up to dinner. That seemed quite reasonable, as of course they have a very pleasant sitting room there. The next day they did not turn up for lunch, and though the weather was perfect Mr. Freeling Poignton never came down for his game of golf."

"How long ago?" Mr. Laxworthy asked.

"The day before yesterday," she replied. "Well, during the afternoon I went down to the violet gardens and on my way back I came round by the villa. It is a little out of the way of course, because none of the paths really pass the villa at all, but—you see I am quite frank with you—I went that way out of curiosity. Not only that, but as I passed the windows I looked in."

"Dear me," Mr. Laxworthy murmured, "that was very shocking of you! What did you see?"

"I saw nothing at all," she replied. "There was the sitting room, but it looked as though it had been unoccupied for days."

"That, seems rather singular," Mr. Laxworthy remarked. "They can't spend all their time in the bedrooms."

"I have passed three times now," she went on. "and not once has there been any sign of life downstairs."

"Do they come out at all?" Laxworthy asked.

"They sit out in the sun together for an hour every morning, and once or twice I have seen Mr. Freeling Poignton walking just outside. But the strange thing is that directly any one approaches he goes indoors. He seems to have a perfect craze for avoiding everybody."

"Incredible!" Mr. Laxworthy declared. "What about his secretary and valet, bye the bye?"

"The secretary is away, and the valet, I believe, has been ill. I know that Mr. Poignton is expecting a new one every day, but he has not arrived yet"

"Where is Mr. Hamar?"

"Gone to England," she replied.

"So that practically the only people sleeping in the villa are Mr. Lenfield and Freeling-Poignton and the former's servant?"

"Mr. Lenfield's servant is there," she assented. "I have seen him once or twice."

They walked along the terrace and took the path to the right which led into the wood and finally into the villa. When they arrived before it, it certainly had a somewhat deserted appearance.

Mr. Laxworthy knocked sharply upon the door. There was no reply. He tried the handle, but found it locked. Then be stepped backward and looked up. There was smoke appearing from the chimney. He knocked at the door again. This time, after the lapse of a few moments, it was cautiously opened by Mr. Lenfield's servant

"What is it you want?" he asked curtly.

"I desired," Mr. Laxworthy said, "to speak with Mr. Lenfield."

"Mr. Lenfield is not in," the man replied, half closing the door.

"You can give' him a message then when be returns," Mr. Laxworthy continued. "Kindly tell him that Mr. Laxworthy is back."

"No need, my dear friend, no need at all to announce it," they heard some one say in the background. "One moment"

Mr. Lenfield appeared, coming down the stairs. He walked to the door, but he did not invite Mr. Laxworthy to enter. He was looking shockingly ill.

"I thought I heard your voice," he remarked. "Welcome back again."

"I knocked at your door." said Mr. Laxworthy. "because I understood at the office that you had asked for me during my absence."

"It is true," Mr. Lenfield admitted. "We missed you from your accustomed table. We were half inclined to fear that you were finding things a little dull here and had moved on."

"An excellent idea," said Mr. Laxworthy. "Your quarters too seem comfortable."

"On some other occasion," Mr. Lenfield promised. "I will give myself the pleasure of asking you to inspect them."

Mr. Laxworthy raised his hat and turned away. A few yards from the house he paused to watch a man who seemed to have come out of the back door, and was making his way into the woods.

"There is no doubt," he remarked, "that there are peculiar circumstances connected with the isolation of our friends. Since you have told me so much it may interest you to know that Fritz, the concierge, had instructions to let them know here the moment I returned. Yet they seem to have no desire to see me when I present myself."

"Have you any idea in your head about these two men?" she bluntly asked.

"None at all. The association seems to me quite extraordinary. Lenfield was obviously embarrassed, and Freeling Poignton has developed a new measure of reserve. Quite an interesting little situation, in its way. This is the walk, is it not. which they call the loneliest around the hotel?"

She drew a little closer to him. They had climbed some distance into the woods now, and coming toward them along the narrow path was a man of somewhat forbidding aspect. He wore laborer's clothes and a cloth hat pulled over his eyes. His face and his walk were alike unprepossessing.

"What a hateful-looking person!" she murmured. "Thank goodness I am not alone!"

The man slackened his pace. He was looking fixedly at the girl. She laid her fingers upon Mr. Laxworthy's arm.

"It is the man whom we saw coming out of the back of the villa!" she cried. "I think that I shall scream!"

"You'll do nothing of the sort," Mr. Laxworthy muttered. "Wait!"

The man passed without addressing them, although both were conscious of a certain hesitation in his manner. No sooner had he gone by, however, than they heard him come to a halt Mr. Laxworthy turned sharply round. What followed happened so quickly that the girl, who stood on one side, found herself afterward scarcely able to describe it. She had not time even to shriek. She was carried away with wonder.

The man, taller by head and shoulders than his frail-looking opponent, sprang at Mr. Laxworthy, dealing him at the same time a savage blow at the side of the head. She saw Mr. Laxworthy take one step backward, then spring on one side with the ease almost of a professional gymnast The rest was indescribable, unexplainable. All she knew was that with a sickening crash, the man who had assaulted him was lying on his back, with Mr. Laxworthy's knee on his stomach and Mr. Laxworthy's fingers upon his throat.

"Now, my friend," Mr. Laxworthy said, "it remains entirely with you whether I summon help and have you conveyed to prison or whether I let you go.

The man began to whine.

"But, monsieur," he cried, "I was starving! The sight of so much riches, so much prosperity, at the hotel here every day drives us mad—us, the very-poor, for whom there is no labor, no food."

"Capital!" Mr. Laxworthy replied. "Now we will take the rest for granted. What were your instructions with regard to me?"

Mr. Laxworthy's fingers suddenly tightened their grip. The man's face was growing black.

"I will tell you the truth." panted the poor fellow. "They offered me a thousand francs to deal with you so that you should keep to your room for a week. If any accident happened they would help me to escape."

Mr. Laxworthy rose to his feet.

"Get up!" be ordered.

The man slunk away. He looked backward over his shoulder and plunged into the wood. Mr. Laxworthy felt for his spectacles and turned to the girl.

"Ah!" he said. "I am glad to see that your nerves are in good order. Having attained the object of our walk let us descend."

She was trembling all over.

"Sometimes," she murmured. "I am almost afraid of you."

"The interesting point," he continued, "is that we have now assured ourselves beyond a doubt that Mr. Freeling Poignton and Mr. Lenfield are engaged in some little enterprise or undertaking in the villa of M. Helder for which they desire perfect seclusion and no interference.

They were descending now to the terrace. She caught at his arm. "Look!"

He turned his head toward the villa, but he was too late.

"There was a face at one of the upper windows!" she remarked. "Some one was watching us."

"I saw them," he replied.

"But you were not looking," she protested.

He smiled.

"Did you hear what my friend Forrest Anderson once called me?" he asked. "'The Man of Peculiar Gifts.' I have rather a curious hearing and rather a curious eyesight. More than once they have been of service to me. I will tell you that the face at the window there belonged to Mr. Freeling Poignton, and notwithstanding the fact that he is a great philanthropist I believe that he was absolutely disappointed to see me coming down this path with you, unhurt"

They were on the terrace now. Inside the band was playing and tea was being served at little tables.

"My dear young lady." said Mr. Laxworthy. "I now, with very much regret, am compelled to leave you. On consulting my tablets a moment or two ago I discovered that I was engaged to play in a rubber of bridge this afternoon. My engagement is due within a few minutes. And you?"

"I am not playing bridge till after dinner," she told him. "I may come and watch you."

* * * * *

The American girl was as good as her word. 8he found Mr. Laxworthy, notwithstanding his professed indifference to the game, playing bridge with three of the most practised players in the hotel and she came and sat by his side. When the rubber was over she leaned over his shoulder.

"You must have concentrated or you could never have forced those discards at the end. I saw all the hands. It was so obvious to me what you were playing for and it was so skilfully done."

Mr. Laxworthy shook his head.

"So far from concentrating," he said. "It was during that test hand that I made up my mind exactly what is wrong down at the villa. I have sent Sydney for my cap and cape. I should be glad if you would walk with me for five minutes on the terrace in front."

They stepped out into the faint violet twilight. Mr. Laxworthy pointed with his stick to the villa.

"To-night" he said, "very soon after dinner, in fact, I am going through every room there. I know beforehand what I shall find. After to-night I am afraid you will see no more of him."

"Is there anything really wrong down there?" she asked.

They paused and looked down. There was only one light twinkling through the trees.

"Yes," Mr. Laxworthy replied, "there is a great deal wrong."

Mr. Laxworthy was watching the light. He turned slowly around.

"There is a question or two I should like to ask Fritz," he remarked. "Let's how much he is willing to tell."

Fritz was standing on the threshold of the hotel door. It was obvious that at the first mention of the villa he became uneasy.

"Can you tell me," Mr. Laxworthy inquired, "who else sleeps there besides Mr. Lenfield and Mr. Freeling Poignton? Are there any of the hotel servants in the place?"

"They none of them sleep over there, sir," Fritz replied. "Mr. Poignton has had our stenographer down once or twice during the last few days to write letters for him."

Mr. Laxworthy nodded.

"So that, as a matter of fact," he remarked, "there are only Mr. Poignton and Mr. Lenfield and the latter's servant who sleep in the cottage?"

"That is all, sir," Fritz assented.

Mr. Laxworthy took out his fountain pen.

"I am anxious to have a short conversation with Mr. Freeling Poignton," he said. "I will write a note, Fritz, and I would like to have you take it down to the villa at once. I shall expect an answer when I come down to dinner."

"The note shall be delivered in a few minutes, sir," Fritz promised.

They strolled away.

"Are you still as confident as ever that there is something wrong?" the girl asked him.

"Absolutely now," Mr. Laxworthy replied. "I never had any real doubt about it. There is a little tragedy going on down there which I must stop, and very soon."

"When?" she asked him.

Mr. Laxworthy glanced at the clock.

"I shall dine at half past seven. At twenty minutes past eight I shall go down to the villa."

"Can I come too?" she begged breathlessly.

Mr. Laxworthy hesitated. "You can come, hut I shall have to bring Sydney as well to look after you."

Mr. Laxworthy spent some little time before dinner studying The Times and other English newspapers, a task which he attempted so seldom that he found it difficult to reach the items of news which he desired. Apparently, however, he was fully satisfied when he at last ascended to his room and changed for dinner.

There were still one or two matters with regard to the villa concerning which he desired information, and he rang his bell and asked for Fritz, the concierge, to be sent up to his room. The man, who was just going off duty, presented himself within a lew minutes. Mr. Laxworthy took a hundred-franc note from his vest pocket.

"Fritz," he said. "I am going to ask you a few questions. I am not attempting to bribe you, but I never expect to get information for nothing. Put this in your pocket, please, and remember that the questions which I am asking you I am asking in the interests of your master and the hotel. It is the situation down at the villa which interests me," said Mr. Laxworthy. "Tell, me, who waits upon Mr. Poignton and Mr. Lenfield?"

"No one, sir, from the hotel. Mr. Lenfield got M. Holder's old cook to look after them, and the waiting is done by Mr. Poignton's valet. Both gentlemen declared that they were very anxious for an absolutely quiet time. Mr. Poignton, as you know, sir, was always a little eccentric."

"Quite so. So really no one from the hotel goes down there at all?"

"No one, sir. We see Mr. Poignton and Mr. Lenfield sitting outside sometimes, but as a matter of fact they seem to be leading an extraordinarily secluded life."

"Mr. Hamar has gone to London, I believe?"

"That is so, sir."

"Mr. Poignton's secretary is, I think you said, at Marseilles?"

"Yes, sir."

"Thank you," Mr. Laxworthy concluded. "You see, the information I required is not very serious, is it? That is all. Fritz."

Mr. Laxworthy descended to dinner more than ordinarily thoughtful. At the conclusion of the meal he summoned Sydney.

"We are going," he announced, "for a short stroll. Miss Chambers will accompany us," Miss Chambers was waiting for them in the hall. They all three stepped out together.

"Are we going anywhere in particular?" Sydney asked cheerfully.

"We are going to the villa," Mr. Laxworthy replied. "It is just possible that we may have a little trouble there."

They approached the front door. Mr. Laxworthy tried the handle softly. The door was fastened with a safety lock. From one of his pockets he produced a key.

"Come!" he said.

They followed him into the hall. Mr. Laxworthy opened the door of the sitting room. Freeling Poignton was there alone, reading. He looked up with a frown at their entrance. Mr. Laxworthy said nothing. It seemed as though his silence was purposeful.

"What do you want?" the man in the easy chair asked sharply.

"You understand it moderately well," Mr. Laxworthy said coolly. "By the bye, let me tell you at once that if you raise your voice there will be trouble. Keep quiet, and your share in this little affair may be treated lightly. If you take sides at all you will suffer with those who lose."

"I don't know what you mean," the other muttered.

Mr. Laxworthy shrugged his shoulders.

"You know very" well. Mr. Hastings," he replied. "Remember that I saw you when you gave that little performance at the Paradise Hotel the other night. I heard you offer, after your few impersonations of celebrated people, to impersonate any one in the audience with five minutes preparation. You have certainly managed, for the last few days, to allay all anxiety as regards the whereabouts of Freeling Poignton, and I want you to understand now that the game is up.

"Sit down in your chair, go back to your book, and keep your mouth shut. That is the only way you will be able to escape a little from the trouble that is coming."

The man had commenced to shake. Very quietly he did exactly as he was bidden. Sydney was shaking his head.

"By Jove, though," he muttered, "it's a clever imitation! Why, I've seen him half a dozen times sitting about outside the villa; and I've never doubted for a moment but that it was Freeling Poignton."

They ascended quite quietly to the first landing. Outside the door of the front room they paused. Then what little color remained in the girl's cheeks suddenly faded away. They heard distinctly the low, terrible moan of a man in pain.

Mr. Laxworthy hesitated for barely a second. He tried the handle of the door. It yielded to his touch. All three passed the threshold.

The room was lit by a single lamp. In shirt and trousers, with untidy hair. a spot of burning color upon his cheek bones, Lenfield was standing with both arms outstretched, as though he had been interrupted in the middle of a speech. Below him, stretched on a long settee stripped of its cushions, tied with a hundred pieces of rope—tied at the ankles, the knees, the legs, the chest everywhere—lay the figure of a man, deathly white. Even as they entered the room they heard his piteous appeal.

"Let me go!" he moaned. "You shall have another million—ten, if you will. Let me go—I am dying! Ah! What's that?"

He tried to turn his head toward the door, but the ropes prevented him. Lenfield looked up, and recognized them with a howl of rage. He stepped between them and his victim.

"Get away!" he cried. "This is no affair of yours. Be off! Laxworthy, you rat, you miserable, scheming, cursed devil, be off! This is no affair of yours. He is mine, given over to me. If you try to take him away, by heaven, I'll kill you!"

There was a moment's silence.

"Mr. Lenfield!" the American girl gasped.

He recognised her.

"You, too!" he cried, "What does it mean? What are you doing here? I tell you this is a just vengeance—a just vengeance. You none of you know anything about it. I am the man to tell you. I am the man who knows what it means, that he—this that you see here— is a millionaire. I am the one who has lived among the people and who has seen the thousands and thousands who have starved and sold their health and their lives and their honor and their children's honor that he may be one of the gods of the earth, a creature with unholy, unwholesome power oozing from the very pores of his skin, with a banking account that would buy life and health and joy for all the thousands who rot in the gutters day by day."

"He is mad!" the American girl whispered, and Sydney nodded. But Lenfield. whose hearing was extraordinarily acute, leaped upon the word.

"Mad!" he cried. "Why not? Who could have lived my life and not be. mad? Mad? Look at me! That man Laxworthy knows a little about me. Listen!

"Once I was an East End clergyman. It was there that the seeds of madness were sown. Then I went over to the people. Their cause was my cause. I became a Socialist, afterward an anarchist.

"We had traitors among our leaders. I betrayed them. It was for the good of the cause. I went to the police. They called me an informer, but it was those who did our cause harm that I delivered up.

"Look at him," he added, pointing downward to the man who was writhing under the ropes. "I lured him here. I hired that man downstairs to allay suspicions. In this room he has been for five days I just keep him alive.

"Each day he signs a great check, which I send to London—not for myself, not one penny. Read the English papers. There isn't a society that labors in the East End that hasn't received within the last few days the biggest anonymous subscription that has ever been presented to it. Two million dollars have gone out of this room in sight drafts upon London banks and found their way to charity within the last five days.

"To-night he is going to sign a larger one still. To-night we are going to endow a society which will practically take the children at one swoop from the streets of London. To-night—"

Mr. Laxworthy stepped forward.

"Lenfield," he said, "this must finish."

Lenfield sprang upon him like a wild-cat. Mr. Laxworthy threw him over with a turn of the wrists. Sydney caught him as he fell and held him to the ground. Mr. Laxworthy was already cutting the cords. He looked round.

"Miss Chambers," he said. "Mr. Poignton will probably collapse. Please run up to the hotel and ask them to send a doctor. Ask Mr. Helder to step down here at once. You will do this?"

"Of course," she answered. "Is there nothing I can do for him before I go?"

Mr. Laxworthy looked at her admiringly.

"Young lady," he said, "get the brandy flask from the pocket of my coat there, pour a little into a tumbler and pass it to me."

She knelt by his side, and together they finished their task of releasing the bound man. Mr. Poignton struggled to rise and failed.

"That man—has been mad—for five days!" he murmured brokenly.

He turned over and fainted. Mr. Laxworthy nodded, and the girl hurried off. At the door, however, she was met by M. Helder and his wife. The alarm had already been given by Hastings. They came trooping up the stairs. Mr. Laxworthy. with his finger upon the pulse of the fainting man, waved them back.

"Lock that madman up," he said, pointing to Lenfield. "There is no real harm done. Mr. Poignton has fainted. He will be better directly."

Mr. Poignton opened his eyes.

"I am better already," he gasped. "Another night would have finished me."

He grasped Mr. Laxworthy's hand.

* * * * *

By 8 o'clock the next morning Mr. Lenfield had been escorted to a French lunatic asylum; Mr. Freeling Poignton had passed a good night and was on the road to recovery; Mr. Laxworthy, Mr. Forrest Anderson and Sydney Wing were seated in the omnibus on their way to catch the Côte d'Azur Express. The American gin came out to see them off. She gave both her hands to Mr. Laxworthy.

"I think," she murmured, "that you are the most wonderful man I ever met"

"Dear young lady," he replied, "you make me wonder how long I shall be able to keep away."

She laughed and waved her hand. The omnibus rattled off toward the station.</story>