<story title="THE DESERTED HOTEL" date="1912">
MR. FORREST ANDERSON, Mr. Sydney Wing, and Mr. Laxworthy were seated side by side on low canvas chairs at the extreme edge of a little strip of sand jutting out into the Mediterranean. About fifty yards behind them was a hotel built of white stone, with green shutters and balconies hung with flowers. Save themselves, there was no human being in eight.

Mr. Laxworthy was reading with much apparent interest a volume of philosophy. Sydney Wing was throwing pebbles into the sea. Forrest Anderson was dozing. Sydney Wing threw his last pebble, gave a mighty yawn, and struck.

"Mr. Laxworthy, sir!"

"Well?"

"I am absolutely bored to death, sir."

Mr. Laxworthy looked at him steadfastly and sighed.

"It is because you have no mind, young man," he declared severely. "You have no resources. You cannot enjoy solitude. Here we are cut off for a few days from all the distractions of life. There isn't a villa even in sight. Our hotel is practically empty. Instead of congratulating yourself upon having found such a spot, you find yourself bored."

"I admit it," Sydney confessed, sadly. "Even a game of golf would cheer me up."

"You shall have it," Mr. Laxworthy promised him. "Within an hour a motor car which I have hired for a month will arrive from Monte Carlo. You can drive yourself to Vallascure."

"A motor car!" Sydney murmured, his face lighting up. "For use?"

"Possibly," Mr. Laxworthy replied dryly.

"You said just now, sir, that the hotel was practically empty," the young man went on. "There surely isn't another soul staying there! We have lunched and dined there for three days, and the salon looks like a desert."

"It has a deserted appearance," Mr. Laxworthy admitted.

Mr. Forrest Anderson sat up suddenly in his chair.

"I will tell you something," he said. There is something uncanny to me about one or two of those closed rooms upstairs.

"For three days we have not seen a soul except the waiters about the place. There has been no sign of any other guests. Yet sometimes in the corridors I have fancied I distinctly heard voices.

"Yesterday morning I distinctly saw a face at the window of one of those rooms which they told us were dismantled. I can never pass down the corridor to my room without feeling that there is one living person at any rate close at hand."

"Really," Mr. Laxworthy declared, "this is quite wonderful. I had no idea that you were developing gifts of this order. A man who can divine the presence of a human being behind a closed door is a man of parts. Indeed!"

"You can make fun of me if you like," Mr. Forrest Anderson replied, unmoved. "Yesterday I met a waiter with a dinner tray on the landing. Where did he come from?"

"I could have sworn I heard a violin the other night," Sydney put in.

Mr. Laxworthy looked from one to the other,

"You amaze me!" he assured them. "You are both of you developing gifts and powers of observation which are perfectly astonishing. Anything else?"

Sydney Wing lit a cigarette.

"Rather getting at us. aren't you, sir?" he remarked. "There's one thing, we're used to surprises. Think how you've treated us this time!

"You see this queer little hotel from the road, with its very notice board thrown down, its drive thick with weeds, looking for all the world as though it were entirely deserted, and you insist that it is the one place in the Riviera for which you have been searching. We follow meekly, and have the utmost difficulty in persuading the landlord to give us any rooms at all.

"Yet here we have stayed three days, and until this minute I don't think it has occurred to either Anderson or myself to wonder whether our coming was altogether as unexpected as it seemed."

Mr. Laxworthy took up his book.

"Tell me," he said dryly, "is this the landlord who comes to us from the hotel?

Both men glanced round.

"It is the landlord," Sydney announced. "Mr. Dreiche he calls himself, I believe."

M. Dreiche came down the boarded way across the shingle and approached them, hat in hand. He walked heavily, his expression was gloomy, not to say anxious. His smile of politeness as he saluted his visitors was, without doubt, forced.

"I have news for monsieur," he announced, "of the worst. I have a party of guests who will arrive to-day. If monsieur appreciates the solitude of his surroundings, it is finished. These guests who come, they are not, alas! the most desirable. Monsieur and his friends will doubtless decide to depart."

"How many of these guests will there be?" Mr. Laxworthy inquired.

"Five or six, beyond a doubt, perhaps more," M. Dreiche told him sadly. "But for this wretched season I would have denied them. I know well that they are noisy and ill-mannered."

Mr. Laxworthy sighed.

"We will remain for a day or so longer, at any rate," he announced.

"We will see what the inconvenience of their coming amounts to. It would be unfair to leave so hastily."

The smile on M. Dreiche's lips was a little sickly.

"There is, alas! another matter, monsieur," he continued. "These people selected their rooms a month ago. They comprise the suites at present occupied by monsieur and his friends."

"But it is absurd, this," Mr. Laxworthy declared testily. "We're in possession and we shall not move—not to-day, at any rate; perhaps not to-morrow. We await events. At your service, M. Dreiche."

Mr. Laxworthy picked up his book.

The hotel proprietor very slowly returned to his hotel. "We're in the way," Sydney Wing murmured.

"I thought that we might be," Mr. Laxworthy assented, as he settled himself down once more to read.

* * * * *

Luncheon that day. in marked contrast with its predecessors, was an almost impossible meal. The omelette was burned, the cutlets almost raw and the service abominable.

"We're to be starved out," Mr. Laxworthy declared cheerfully. "Never mind. It is only for a day. If anything comes of our little visit here it will be all over within twenty-four hours or so."

Presently the manager sought them out once more, carrying this time an open telegram in his hand.

"Mr. Laxworthy," he began, "I am desolated. But my guests who are coming insist upon the rooms they themselves selected, and so much of my hotel is dismantled that I have no other apartments fit to offer. My friend, the manager of the Grand Hotel at Vallascure telephones me that he will be delighted to receive monsieur and his friends. Monsieur, I am sure, will find his hotel most comfortable."

"When I go to it I dare say I shall."

Mr. Laxworthy replied. "For two days I remain here. That is settled. If you turn us out of our rooms it will be necessary for you to find us others."

At about half past ten that evening Mr. Laxworthy and Forrest Anderson left the smoking-room together.

"The moonlight is wonderful," Mr. Laxworthy declared. "We will walk for half an hour on the sands. Where is Sydney?"

"Out looking the car over," Forrest Anderson replied.

Mr. Laxworthy nodded approvingly.

"We will fetch him," he said. "There is a way to the garage through the shrubbery."

They found Sydney, who had completed his task, seated outside the garage smoking.

"Bully car," he pronounced. "I can get forty out of her if necessary."

"She is ready to start?" Mr. Laxworthy asked.

"With a turn of the wrist."

"Very good. We will now walk together on that strip of sand by the sea. I have a fancy for that spot, for it is the one place where we could not possibly be overheard."

"You have something to tell us?" 8ydney demanded eagerly.

"Less a great deal than you are expecting to hear," Mr. Laxworthy replied dryly. "You are wondering why I brought you here, you are wondering why I refuse to leave. Frankly, I do not know. I can only tell you this: There is a man hiding here and I can't imagine why.

"There are guests expected here to-night connected in some way with this man and I have no idea why they are coming. The whole affair may be of absolutely no importance. On the other hand I object to coincidences which I do not understand. Listen!"

The three-men stood perfectly motionless. The whole of the front of the hotel was dark except for one window at the end of the row, from which came a faint, glimmering light. The window was open and through it came floating out very softly upon the moonlight stillness a breath of very faint, very sweet music. Some one was playing the violin, playing very quietly, but with exquisite skill. The music grew and grew, becoming stronger and more passionate with every note.

"Our mysterious neighbor at last," Sydney murmured.

Gradually the music died away. Then there was silence. Mr. Laxworthy drew his shawl a little closer around his shoulders.

"The fellow plays like a magician," he muttered.

"He is surely a great master!" Forrest Anderson exclaimed.

"He is the chef d'orchestre at Decat's restaurant, or rather he was until a few nights ago," Mr. Laxworthy replied dryly.

"A chef d'orchestre!" Sydney repeated incredulously. "What on earth is doing here, then?"

Mr. Laxworthy smiled amiably.

"So far as one could gather from a few casual inquiries," he declared, "the man's character is irreproachable. He has a quieter manner than most of his kind and has a reputation for being ambitious. M. Decat, for example, made but one complaint of him. He sought without a doubt to attract the attention of the wealthy ladies who frequented the restaurant. He abandoned his post at a moment's notice. Decat lost him with infinite regret. He left Monte Carlo openly. There is not a word spoken against him."

"In my opinion," Forrest Anderson said, "we are going very soon to find ourselves de trop here. It is probably a love affair, and the fellow has come here to meet the inamorata."

"That view of the situation has occurred to me," Mr. Laxworthy confessed. "On the other hand, why this desire on the part of the hotel proprietor to get rid of us? Why this secrecy concerning the man's presence here? Why, too, should these expected guests arrive by water?"

"How do you know that they are going too?" Sydney asked.

This afternoon," Mr. Laxworthy pointed out, "a new rope has been affixed to that little landing stage. Since dinner time M. Dreiche has walked down here, looking toward the point, at least a dozen times. These things are not for nothing. The visitors will arrive by water from Monte Carlo."

The three men presently returned to the house. Their rooms all looked toward the sea and were in line with the one from which the music had issued.

"I must confess," Mr. Laxworthy said, "that the arrival of these guests interests me to such an extent that I shall not retire for the present. I do not imagine that anything will happen to-night, but it would be wise, I think, if you others followed my example."

"Are you likely to want the car?" Sydney inquired. "I'll sleep in her at any rate. If you want me I shall be on hand."

The hours of the night passed peacefully and uneventfully away. The full yellow light faded from the stars, the moon became colorless. The faintest of gray mists hung upon the water.

Suddenly those who watched were rewarded for their vigil. A dark object glided round the point and came rushing in toward the shore. Almost as it appeared the music recommenced. The man in the end room was standing up now.

Mr. Laxworthy could see him distinctly, could trace the fierce, upward curl of his mustache, the white face, the burning eyes. The tone of his music had changed. It was becoming now a paean of welcome.

Then from the boat came a cry. Mr. Laxworthy heard it and smiled. It was the key to the whole situation. The cry was one of wonder, but underneath it there was fear.

The boat glided up to the landing stage. The little party disembarked in the glimmering twilight. There were only three passengers—two men and a girl. The latter had almost to be lifted out. They came very slowly up the little strip of sand, the girl apparently protesting all the time. Then when they were about twenty yards from the front door of the hotel a figure suddenly emerged, running toward them. It was the musician.

"Mademoiselle, dear mademoiselle!" he exclaimed with an exaggerated gesture of great joy, "you have come to me! It is the morning of my life, this! I kiss your hands, dear mademoiselle."

She placed her hands firmly behind her. Even in that dim, ghostly twilight the three men who watched could see that she was tall and fair. Her tone was fun of angry contempt.

"Come to you indeed! You must be mad. I came because they told me that my father was here, that he'd had an accident. Is this a trick?"

The musician pressed toward her.

"Dear mademoiselle," he pleaded, "it is no trick. It is the call of my heart to yours. No longer could I play at Decat's, pining for a word with you, a touch of your fingers.

"Mademoiselle, be kind to me, I pray. I am only a poor artist, but there is no one in your great world who could love as I."

"Artist indeed!" the girl retorted. "I should call you a mountebank! The messages I sent were simply to the maker of music which pleased me for a moment. They had nothing to do with the man. Stand out of the way. please. In your balcony at Decat's you are in your place. Here you annoy me."

The musician stood quivering with rage, his face convulsed with passion. He looked like some evil thing.

"Mademoiselle will regret!" he declared fiercely. "I sent her the message we agreed upon," he added as though to appeal to the others. "She leaves her yacht to come to me. Now caprice has seized her. Is it that you are a coquette after all, mademoiselle? Is it that you have indeed forgotten that next my heart reposes the flower you sent me, the flower which your lips have touched?"

"You are an idiot," the girl declared scornfully. "I'm not sure that you are not also a knave. I insist upon being told whether your message was a trick. Is my father here or is he not?"

The door of the hotel had opened. It was M. Dreiche who came out. He bowed low to mademoiselle.

"Mademoiselle will be pleased to enter," he begged. "There are other guests in the hotel and one fears to disturb them."

The girl did not move.

"Are you the proprietor?" she demanded.

"At your service, mademoiselle."

"Will you tell me at once whether my father, Mr. Gilbert Towers, is here?"

M. Dreiche shook his head slowly.

"No, mademoiselle," he replied. "There is certainly no gentleman of that name in the hotel."

She turned to the two men who had brought her from the boat.

"Am I to believe, then," she cried angrily, "that I have been brought here by a trick? These men came to the yacht and told me that my father was lying here badly hurt*. What does it mean?"

For the first time the girl seemed terrified. She looked around her, as though searching for a friendly face—in vain.

"My father is not here!" she gasped. "It is indeed a plot, this!"

Once more the musician approached her.

"Ah, mademoiselle," he pleaded, "dear lady of my dreams, forgive me if I have schemed just a little to win so great a happiness. These are my brothers? Henri, who brought you here in the launch; Charles, who owns this hotel.

"I come to them and I tell them how things are between you and me; how we love, but how impossible it is to meet, that your father is a millionaire, and you, alas! are never alone. We make this little plot between us. It is for the happiness of both of us, dear.

"Everything has been arranged, the priest is at hand. By to-morrow night we can be in Paris. Then I will play to you all my life. I will teach you new music, I will—"

His sentence ended in a howl of rage. The girl had leaned forward and struck him across the mouth with the palm of her hand. Her eyes were blaring.

"You are a lunatic!" she exclaimed fiercely. "I have smiled at you once or twice because your music pleased me. I sent you a flower one night because I hesitated to give you money. Whatever more you have imagined is simply the result of your stupid vanity.

"If you are indeed the manager of the hotel, monsieur," she added, turning to M. Dreiche, "you will order these men to take me straight back to my yacht."

M. Dreiche was silent for a moment. "Mademoiselle," he said slowly, "pray consider. The note, signed, 'Antoine, your lover,' will be found upon the yacht. You have said hard things to Antoine to-night, but I cannot believe that you mean them all. You are here, the tide has turned, you cannot return. Poor Antoine adores you. Take his hand and be reconciled, mademoiselle. and let me send for the priest."

"Do you seriously believe," the girl cried furiously, "that I would marry a monkey like that?"

The two men had drawn nearer. M. Dreiche gave a little sign. In a moment she was seized from behind. Antoine's hand was upon her mouth.

"Bring her to the hotel," he ordered. "She shall be tamed."

They had barely dragged her a single yard before they stopped short. Several most amazing things were happening. There was suddenly the low hum of a motor, and Sydney, seated in a gray car, emerged from the garage, and came sweeping up to the door of the hotel. Mr. Laxworthy and Mr. Forrest Anderson appeared on the threshold. The former came slowly toward the little group who were standing like stone figures upon the gravel front.

"M. Dreiche," Mr. Laxworthy remarked, "I regret that I cannot possibly remain any longer in a hotel where conversations of such length are carried on at five o'clock in the morning beneath my window."

"Monsieur departs," the hotel proprietor faltered.

"It has occurred to me that, notwithstanding the warmth of her reception, mademoiselle might care to accompany me," Mr. Laxworthy continued.

"You will save me?" she implored.

M. Dreiche put two fingers mouth, and whistled. Almost immediately several men came stealing out.

"It is a family affair, this," M. Dreiche declared harshly. "You and your friends can go. But the young lady remains."

Antoine struck an attitude.

"If any one dares to take her from me," he cried, "they shall answer to me for it, if necessary with their life!"

Mr. Laxworthy had taken up a strategic position with his back to the motor-car. Very slowly his right hand came out of his overcoat pocket. With a cry of terror, Antoine leaped indoors. A bullet had whistled close by his head.

"I only wish to remark," Mr. Laxworthy went on, "that I am used to to having my own way my pistol is automatic. I think that you had better release the young lady."

The two men who were holding her promptly abandoned their charge. Laxworthy with his left hand led her into the motor. The little group of men closed in upon them. Antoine, who had rushed into the house was whispering to his brothers.

"M. Dreiche," Mr. Laxworthy said sternly. "I have no certain assurance to offer you, but if this young lady takes my advice the affair will remain quiet. If, on the other hand, our departure is interfered with in any way, there will will be reprisals"

M. Dreiche did not hesitate. He turned back and raised his hat.

"A little misunderstanding," he murmured; "a lover's quarrel only, which is better finished."

.The car swung up the avenue and into the road. The girl, who was clasping Mr. Laxworthy's hand, began now to sob.

"Tell me who you are, sir. How did you come there?"

"I am just an incident," Mr. Laxworthy remarked. "In Monte Carlo I happened to hear a few words pass between that fiddle player and his brother. I saw you in the restaurant too, and I noticed the way Antoine, as he calls himself, watched you. I give you a word of advice, young lady—"

"I was an idiot," she murmured, "Yes, please do!" "When the music of a person of that class pleases you, remember that wiser to let your mankind offer money than to send a flower from yourself. Those fiddlers are all eaten up with conceit. They don't understand."

The girl smiled through her tears.

"You know, I believe you're right," she admitted.</story>