<story title="MR. LAXWORTHY, DEBT COLLECTOR" date="1912">
MR. LAXWORTHY came to a standstill in the centre of the narrow London pavement. Although he was certainly not a man given to casual gallantries, it was obvious that he was engaged in watching a young woman now disappearing through the swing doors of a small restaurant on the opposite side of the street. As soon as she had finally passed out of view he turned and followed her.

The neighborhood was an unsavory one and the restaurant one of the smallest and meanest of its class. The muslin blinds behind the glass door which Mr. Laxworthy pushed open were soiled and torn. The restaurant itself was ill-ventilated, dirty and noisy. The young woman was sitting at a table holding the menu in front of her face. Laxworthy, whose presence the young woman was attempting to ignore, tapped with his finger upon the menu.

"Come, come, young woman!" he exclaimed a little testily. "I have seen quite enough of the back of that soiled bill of fare. In any case, it is of no interest to either you or me, because are going to lunch elsewhere."

Very slowly she lowered it and looked up at him. She was thin, and there was an expression in her eyes which Mr. Laxworthy had seen once or twice before during his life associated with different people and which he did not like at all. Her clothes were desperately shabby. She seemed thinner about the neck, and the fingers which still held the bill of fare were almost emaciated.

"How do you do, Mr. Laxworthy?" she said, with an attempt at her old manner. "I am sorry that I did not recognize you at once."

"Rubbish!" Mr. Laxworthy replied irritably. "You not only recognised me, you tried to avoid me. You ought to know by now that I am not a man to be avoided. Put on your gloves again, please, and come with me. We are going to lunch somewhere where the odor of other people's meals is not quite so insistent.

"Waiter," he continued, addressing a miserable specimen of his class who had shambled up, "I am depriving you of a customer. Here is recompense. Now open the door for us."

The girl followed her companion meekly enough out onto the pavement, but when he called a taxicab she protested.

"I cannot go anywhere to lunch with you!" she declared. "I am not prepared."

Mr. Laxworthy was either in a very bad humor, or else he had come to the conclusion that kindness was not the weapon by which he could easiest attain his ends.

"Get in and don't be foolish," he ordered. "I can assure you that I have no idea of going to the Ritz or the Carlton. Look at my own muddy boots and shabby hat. I've been tramping about Soho myself for two hours."

"What have you been doing here?" she asked.

Mr. Laxworthy almost pushed her into the vehicle, gave an order to the driver and seated himself beside her.

"Looking for adventures," he answered tartly. "I don't believe there is such a thing left in London. I have spent," he proceeded, with the air of one relieving himself of a grievance, "a most unsatisfactory and unpleasant two months. My young friend Wing has got married. I don't know whether you remember my other friend. Mr. Forrest Anderson, but his brother has left him four hundred a year, and he's gone round the world on a tour. Not a thing to do, not a thing to occupy a man of my peculiar tastes."

"Where are we going now?" she asked a little timidly.

"Young lady," Mr. Laxworthy declared, "if you would get out of that habit of asking questions we should get on better. We are going to Victoria Railway Station."

"What for?"

"God Mess my soul!" Mr. Laxworthy exclaimed. "What do you think we are going there for! Do you imagine I want to take you down to Brighton for the day, or elope with you to the Continent? We are going there to eat, of course.

"Best place I know of," Mr. Laxworthy continued, "to get a wholesome and satisfactory meal, is the dining room of a large railway station. Besides, no one will notice my boots."

The girl laughed faintly.

"You are a man of resource," she murmured. "Your boots, indeed!"

"If I am tactful enough, my dear Miss Garesworthy," Mr. Laxworthy continued to ignore the fact that you are not attired with your accustomed elegance, it is at least up to you to try and forget my boots. Here we are. This way, please."

Mr. Laxworthy paid for his taxicab and conducted his companion into the station dining-room, where he ordered a substantial lunch. He then made a brief visit to the bar, from which he returned, followed by a waiter upon whose salver reposed two glasses of amber-colored liquid.

"A wonderful apertif," Mr. Laxworthy explained, "mixed under my personal supervision. Eat a mouthful of roll and drink it down—so!"

Somehow or other he seemed to manage to keep the conversation to trivialities until they were half way through lunch. He waited until he saw a [glow appear] in his his companion's cheeks [and ascertained] that her fingers had ceased to shake or her lips to tremble. Then, without the slightest embarrassment, he began in a most direct way [to ask questions].

"You have been having a rough time, haven't you?" he demanded. "Some of the things that have happened to you you don't care to tell, but I would like to know what became of Wardley."

For a moment she half-closed her eyes, and Mr. Laxworthy was afraid that he had been premature.

"Do you know anything at all?" she asked him.

"Nothing," he replied, "When I have finished with an adventure, especially one which me no near the sphere of my friend Mr. Marlin, I try to forget it as quickly as I can."

[She looked at him and said] slowly: "They treated him like terriers would have done a rat."

"A very infamous scoundrel, Wardley," Mr. Laxworthy declared, sipping his wine.

"Afterward," she went on, "they shut him up. There are empty rooms there without a single article of furniture. He was in one of these for three days.

"I used to hear him sobbing and. moaning at night. They got the money out of him, and I begged them to let him go. Dan Greenlaw would have consented, but Proudson was like a wild animal. He used to take a chair into the room, and sit and watch him writhe about, and listen to him moan for mercy.

"When he came out there was always the same sort of smile upon his lips. I—I couldn't stand it. One night I set Wardley free."

Mr. Laxworthy paused in his lunch. He looked steadfastly across the table at his companion.

"You set Wardley free," he repeated. "What was he to you that you took such a risk?"

"Nothing," she answered, with a low note of passion in her tone; "less than nothing. I hated him. I despised him. I never listened to him for one moment. He would have married me, anywhere, any time. I would sooner have died!

"But, Mr. Laxworthy," she went on, dropping her voice, "have you ever heard a man in pain sobbing himself to death? Have you ever wakened in the night and heard a low, weird moaning as though a man were being consumed with some awful pain which brought him nearer and nearer every moment to death, so near that already he was peering into the gulf, and the terror of it was in his brain?"

"Don't!" Mr. Laxworthy exclaimed testily. "You'll spoil my luncheon!"

"I set him free," she continued. "He went off like some badly wounded creature, without a word of thanks. He never even stopped, as a dog would have done, to lick my hand.

"Proudson would have killed me. Dan threw me out onto th e streets. He thought that I had done it for Wardley's sake, and bade me go to him. Since then I have mostly starved.

"I sold my clothes and bought cheaper ones, and I have lived on the difference—it wasn't very much. The few jewels I had were at the flat. I suppose the police have them now."

"What did Wardley do?" Mr. Laxworthy asked.

"Gave information at once," she replied. "He informed against Dan too for the bank robbery."

"I read the papers every morning," Mr. Laxworthy began. "I don't seem to remember—"

"Nothing has happened yet," she interrupted, "but in a way it is terrible. Dan is hiding for his life now., and I don't think Proudson means to be taken alive, although there is only the assault against him.

"Wardley is half hunter and half hunted. He sits in his house shivering with fear, though he has a police sergeant steeping in the adjoining room and burglar alarms on every window. He dare not go to his office; he scarcely dare leave the house."

Mr. Laxworthy smiled.

"Sometimes one is tempted to believe," he remarked, "that justice is one of the natural laws. I have no doubt that Mr. Wardley is having an exceedingly uncomfortable time. By the bye, have you communicated with him at all?"

"I have written to him," she replied. "I only wanted my own money. It was little enough, still it would have made all the difference to me now. He took no notice of my letter. Then I went to his house. He declined to see me."

Mr. Laxworthy ordered some coffee.

"I have enjoyed our talk Immensely," he said. "It has also interested me very much to hear your story. How much did you say you had entrusted Mr. Wardley with?"

"The amount was 100 pounds," she replied.

Mr. Laxworthy opened his pocket-book.

"I will buy that debt from you," he decided, counting out some notes. "It will afford me much satisfaction to collect it."

Her face suddenly lit up, but almost immediately clouded over again.

"You would never be able to get it," she said. "I daren't take the money."

"On the contrary," Mr. Laxworthy retorted, "I am very sure indeed that I shall get that money. If you had had claims upon Mr. Wardley of a more intangible character, it would have given me great pleasure to have increased the amount very considerably. On the whole, however, I am pleased to hear the truth as to your relations with him. Permit me."

He pushed the notes across to her. She looked at them, half frightened.

"A hundred pounds," Mr. Laxworthy continued, "is not a large sum. There are times, as I know, when it appears inexhaustible. As a matter of fact, a hundred pounds will not last you very long.

"I understand, of course, the peculiar difficulty connected with any claim you might make for your wardrobe, and I think you are quite wise to keep away from those flats altogether. You will have to start, therefore, by buying yourself a complete outfit.

"I shall require," he continued thoughtfully, "one smart tailor gown, at least two evening dresses, and for indoor work you will need several of those blouse sort of arrangements and neat skirts."

"What indoor work?" she gasped. "What are you talking about?"

"Did I forget to mention," Mr. Laxworthy asked, "that you are going to be my secretary? I am sorry."

"You are laughing at me!" she declared.

"Nothing of the sort," Mr. Laxworthy assured her. "For a man of my resources I must admit that I have been feeling during the last two months exceedingly bored. I need a companion."

"But you haven't any work to be done," she protested.

"That is precisely why I need a secretary," Mr. Laxworthy pointed out. "If I have a secretary I must get some work. If I have a secretary there is always the necessity of keeping her employed before me. Therefore I must do something. I must confess that I wonder the idea did not occur to me before. It is a positive inspiration."

She began to laugh softly to herself.

"Perhaps," she said, "the most amusing part of it all is that 1 should make a very excellent secretary. I started life in a typewriting office.

"I felt somehow that you were capable. I propose that the rest of the afternoon you devote to procuring your outfit, bearing in mind the fact that the only colors I have a weakness for in evening clothes are a sort of flame color for one and a deep violet blue for the other; both colors, I should imagine," he added critically, "likely to suit your complexion. If you find that the hundred pounds of your own are insufficient I will advance a portion of your salary."

"How much am I going to get. please, and how many hours a day do I work?" she asked.

"I shall pay you," Mr. Laxworthy replied, "as much as you are worth. You must leave the amount to me for a week or two. As regards the rest, you will have to work just as long and as much and as often as I choose. There is nothing regular about my life or my habits, except as regards my meals and my exercise. Do you understand?"

"I understand," she replied meekly.

"So far as my afternoon is concerned," Mr. Laxworthy went on, "I will collect that hundred pounds from Mr. Wardley, if you will be so good as to give me his address."

For a moment she smiled.

"I almost believe," she said, "that you will get it. He lives in rooms at No. 10 John street, Adelphi. It is really a house, but the bottom part is divided into offices.

"At six o'clock precisely," Mr. Laxworthy directed, as he carefully arranged his muffler and overcoat, "you will arrive at the Milan Court. The hall porter will show you the sitting room in which you will work and your own apartment. If you should see nothing of me you may take it for granted that I shall require you to dine with me this evening and make the necessary preparation. My favorite hour is eight o'clock. You will probably find me in the sitting-room at that time. Is everything quite clear to you?"

For a single moment her lip began to tremble again.

"I shall be there," she promised him.

Mr. Laxworthy took a taxicab to Scotland Yard and had a short conversation with Mr. Marlin, from whom he procured a note. He then drove to 10 John street, Adelphi, ascended one flight of stairs and rang the bell of a door upon which a small brass plate was emblazoned with the name of Richard Wardley. The door was opened, after a short delay, by a tall man in plain clothes and unmistakable build.

"Police Sergeant Choppin, I am sure?" Mr. Laxworthy remarked suavely, handing him the note. "This is from Mr. Marlin, at Scotland Yard, and is to insure my getting an interview with Mr. Wardley."

The man took it a little doubtfully.

"If it is from Mr. Marlin, sir," he said, "of course that's different, but Mr. Wardley is unwell and not seeing any one at present. You won't mind if I ask you to wait outside, sir?"

"Not at all," Mr. Laxworthy assented, "so long as you don't ask me to wait long."

Mr. Laxworthy waited upon the landing. It was at least five minutes before the door was reopened and the sergeant motioned him to come in.

"Mr. Wardley is exceedingly upset at the thought of seeing you, sir," he announced. "However. I gave him Mr. Marlin's message and he couldn't very well do no other. Will you come this way?"

Richard Wardley, fatter than ever, whiter than ever, more repulsive than ever, lay half dressed upon a sofa, surrounded by French comic papers and English sporting weeklies.

He watched Mr. Laxworthy as he entered the room with the eyes of a frightened animal.

"Don't go away. Choppin," he ordered. "What do you want with me?"

Mr. Laxworthy at once removed both his muffler and his overcoat, which he placed on Police Sergeant Choppin's arm.

"Well, you don't suppose I came for pleasure," Mr. Laxworthy retorted. "Now do you really want this excellent police sergeant to hear what I have to say to you?"

Wardley hesitated. Mr. Laxworthy winked at Police Sergeant Choppin, who slowly withdrew. This unwelcome visitor swept a chair clear of its encumbrance of periodicals and seated himself.

"Got your check book handy?" he asked.

Mr. Laxworthy had certainly found means to galvanise the indolent body of Richard Wardley into some show of animation. The latter sat up on the couch and banged the cushion.

"My check book?" he almost shrieked. "What do you mean? You too? Don't you know how they bled me—those two devils into whose hands you threw me? Thousands they robbed me of! They made me sell bonds, pay in the proceeds, draw checks till my brain swam. I tell you I'm ruined! I've no more money! I've no more money! Do you hear? What do you come for at all. you miserable—you sneaking—"

The man seemed suddenly to lose his voice. There was something about his visitor's quiet contemplation of him which seemed to draw that faint spark of courage from his heart.

"Mine," Mr. Laxworthy said, "is a very harmless errand. I want only the hundred pounds which Miss Garesworthy entrusted to you."

"Let her get it from her brother, then," Wardley answered sullenly. "He's had all my money—he and the brute Proudson."

"On the contrary," Mr. Laxworthy objected, "it seems to me that it was a part of their own money which they were getting back, and not all of that. Do you give me that hundred pounds?"

"No!" the man snarled.

"I am the inventor," Mr. Laxworthy continued patiently, "of a new scheme of compound interest. I will not explain its workings to you—in your present state you would scarcely be able to follow it—but since that last 'No!' of yours the hundred pounds has become 200. Now, then, do I get that 200 pounds or not?"

The man on the couch opened his mouth and closed it again.

"I'll give you the hundred pounds to get rid of you," he muttered.. "It's only a hundred pounds which she gave me."

"Pity you're a few seconds too late," Mr. Laxworthy remarked. "Two hundred pounds, if you please. You have ten seconds or thereabouts before it becomes three."

"I'll pay!" Wardley cried. "Oh, I'll pay!"

He staggered up to his feet and crossed the room—an untidy, miserable looking object. He sat down at his desk, drew out a check book from a drawer which he unlocked and wrote out a check with trembling fingers. Mr. Laxworthy received it and studied it carefully.

"Quite correct," he said pleasantly; "200 pounds. You see, I trust you implicitly, Mr. Wardley. I have no anxiety whatever. I do not ask you to send for the money. I content myself with knowing that if anything should happen to this check the amount will be 400."

"The check's all right," Wardley declared savagely. "Now you've got it, what else do you want?"

"I want nothing," Mr. Laxworthy assured him. "I am going, in fact, to relieve you at once of my presence. To tell you the truth, although my errand to you has been successful, as I knew it would be, I have not enjoyed my visit in the least.

"I think you are one of the most objectionable persons whom I ever met in my life, and I have not the patience to talk with a man who is such a coward that he has to skulk behind the shoulder of a police sergeant because he has enemies. I hope, Mr. Wardley, that we shall not meet again," Mr. Laxworthy added, with his hand upon the door, "unless at any time I have the pleasure of seeing you in the clearer atmosphere and more bracing surroundings of the Old Bailey."

Mr. Laxworthy called at the bank and cashed his check. Afterward he spent a few hours at his club, where he played auction with much skill and some pecuniary benefit. Afterward, following his accustomed routine, he returned to the Milan Court, took a bath and dressed for dinner.

At 8 o'clock precisely he entered his sitting-room. Miss Garesworthy, in a remarkably pretty evening dress of a deep shade of blue, was sitting before the table making some adjustments to a typewriter.

"Is the color all right?" she asked, as he entered.

"Exactly the shade," Mr. Laxworthy assented.

"I spent lots of money," she went on, and I have bought a typewriter."

"I have seen Richard Wardley and collected a little interest," Mr. Laxworthy announced grimly.

He handed her the further hundred pounds. She shook her head.

"Take it, my dear young lady, I beg," Mr. Laxworthy insisted. "To tell you the truth. I am proud of that hundred pounds. So far as I can remember, it is the first money I ever really stole. If you are quite ready, suppose we dine. It is nearly two minutes past eight, and I am accustomed to regularity with my meals."

* * * * *

At 9 o'clock that evening Richard Wardley was discovered lying in a corner of his room with a bullet wound through his heart. Mr. Laxworthy received the news by telephone from Scotland Yard, together with an intimation that as the last person who had seen he deceased alive, with the exception of the police sergeant who watched over him, he would probably be called as a witness at the inquest.

Later in the evening, however, Proudson was admitted to a London hospital with only a few hours to live and cheerfully signed a confession of the crime.

This was his explanation:


I killed Richard Wardley because he was one of the basest and lowest creatures who ever crawled upon the face of the earth—an informer, a thief, a bestial creature, living without regard [for any one but himself].

Knowing myself to be dying, I feel that I leave this world the easier for having rid it of such a person, and while I confess myself guilty of having forced my way into his rooms to-night and shot him through the heart, I neither repent nor regret that act. Before I lay down this pen for the last time I wish to add that the London and South Westminster Bank robbery was Wardley's affair and Colshaw's and theirs only. There was no other person concerned in it, and Wardley's statements to the contrary are lies.

Signed by JOHN PROUDSON


Mr. Laxworthy sat for long over his breakfast the following morning. reading this confession and a fuller account of the crime. Every now and then he glanced at his watch. At exactly ten o'clock Miss Garesworthy arrived.

"Am I too soon?" she asked, drawing off her gloves and looking at his breakfast fast tray.

"Not at all," he replied, "Ten o'clock was the hour. Have you been out already?"

She nodded.

"I went out to buy all the papers I wanted to read the news. I wanted to know if anything had been mentioned about Dan."

"This fellow Proudson tried to do you a good turn, anyhow," Mr. Laxworthy remarked.

"They win never find Dan," she declared confidently. "There is no one in the world has such gifts as he."

Mr. Laxworthy poured himself out a little more tea.

"I don't see any use in having a secretary," he grumbled, "who can't be here in time to make your tea."

"You told me 10 o'clock," she reminded him.

"Then make it half-past nine to-morrow morning," he replied, "and take your coffee with me, I suppose you breakfasted, by the bye?"

"Long ago," she assured him. "How about our morning's work?"

Mr. Laxworthy took off his spectacles, and rubbed them industriously.

"Ah!" he repeated; "our morning's work!"

"It would be a good plan, I imagine, to start with answering your letters," she suggested briskly.

Mr. Laxworthy glanced down at the the table. The only communication which he had received that morning was an invitation to patronize a [new] Strand tailor.

"To tell the truth," he confessed slowly. "I don't seem to be getting very much correspondence just now."

"Then what is there for me to do?" she demanded.

Mr. Laxworthy sighed.

"There is no help for it," he said, "You must marry me."

She looked at him. with her notebook in one hand and her pencil in the other.

"Don't be absurd!" she murmured.

"There is nothing absurd about it all," Mr. Laxworthy retorted brusquely. "I required your services as a companion—I preferred to put it as a secretary. I haven't any work for you. The only thing I can see to do is to marry you. Then, I suppose, you won't want company."

Her eyes filled with laughter.

"Really," she said, "I had no idea what was coming. I hadn't contemplated anything of the sort—and yet it is terribly difficult to refuse so ardent a suitor!"

"Is that a hint?! Mr. Laxworthy asked.

She looked at him from across the table.

"It had just occurred to me that you might take it in that way," she admitted.

Mr. Laxworthy held out his hand.

"At my time of life too," he sighed "Never mind: I ought to find you [use]ful."

"I shouldn't be surprised," she whispered. "You know I too am rather fond of adventures."

Mr. Laxworthy pushed the table to one side.

"We'll start one of our own, Paula," he declared.</story>