<story title="THE FLOWERS OF DEATH" date="1912">
MME. DE CLERY raised herself a little on her conch. She moved with difficulty; she had lost all her color; her eyes were dull and sunken. Mr. Laxworthy himself would scarcely have recognised her at this moment. She was without doubt ill.

The man-who was paying her this morning visit stood by her side, his gray felt hat in his hand, his whole appearance one of almost tragical sympathy. He was of a type common enough in Monte Carlo and the Riviera generally—short and inclined to embonpoint, but agile in his bearing, with olive cheeks and fiercely curled black mustache.

By disposition gay, he was this morning in the depths of despair. He had the air of one who has unwillingly injured a friend. He was, alas! indirectly responsible for this suffering, the sight of which so greatly disturbed him, and, being a person of kindly disposition, he felt it almost as much as the ruin which stared him in the face."

"There is a little man," she said, speaking with difficulty and in a voice scarcely louder than a whisper, "a little man named Laxworthy. He looks like some funny scientific old fossil. He wears thick glasses and a shawl around his shoulders. He is at the Paradise Hotel at Hyères. Send for him."

M.Decat was a little perplexed.

"But, dear madame," he ventured, "who is this M. Laxworthy, and what will he do for me? Why should I send for him? What shall I say?"

Mme. de Clery spoke once more—still with effort.

"He would not admit it," she continued, "but he is a detective, an investigator, whatever you like to call him—an amateur, but an inspired one. He did a friend of mine a great service. Send for him, and if any one can discover the truth, if any one can save you, he will."

"I will send for him this morning!" M. Decat exclaimed eagerly. "But if he should refuse?"

"He will not refuse," madame assured her visitor. "The affair will appeal to him. You must give him a free hand at your restaurant—and, remember, whatever you do keep the police out of it."

M. Decat wiped his forehead.

"Madame," he declared. In trembling tones, "if the police intervene I am ruined. Already there is talk. There are empty tables even at dinner time— a thing unheard of. It needs only a visit from the chief inspector and I may close my doors."

"Do as I say and the police shall not intervene," madame promised him. "Mr. Laxworthy shall save you."

* * * * *

Mr. Laxworthy came to Monte Carlo, and with him Sydney Wing and Forrest Anderson. They took rooms at the Hotel de Paris, and it was not until he had made various arrangements with regard to his residence there, the position of his bed, the temperature of his morning bath, that Mr. Laxworthy consented to listen to the little man who was eager to tell his story.

"A wonderful season you have had. M. Decat," Mr. Laxworthy remarked.

"A wonderful season for others, it is true," M. Decat confessed; "but for me—alas! for me there comes ruin. When I see one of my best clients depart from Monte Carlo I am overjoyed. I tremble when a friend enters my restaurant."

"You had better tell me your story," Mr. Laxworthy said.

"The,story is short enough, because I know so little," M. Decat declared. "About a month ago the trouble began, one of my clients, an Austrian gentleman, was taken ill at my restaurant. He went pale, he shivered; even before he could be removed he was violently upset in the stomach. The doctor shakes his head and speaks of ptomaine poisoning. But at Decat's— chez Decat's—ah, it is impossible! Who eats at my restaurant eats and drinks of the finest Europe produces. The man is still ill, but be recovers.

"The next day the same thing happens again. This time an English gentleman was taken ill. It is singular, but who can blame the house of Decat? Two days pass without event. Then it is a lady—a Spanish lady, the great Quadella."

"How many in all have suffered?" Mr. Laxworthy inquired.

"Eleven," M. Decat replied with a groan. "Last of all, the best and most charming of my dear lady clients—Mme. de Clery.

"You have, I presume," Mr. Laxworthy asked, "made the obvious investigations?"

M. Decat extended his hands.

"What is there which man could do?" he exclaimed. "My kitchens are like palaces. There is not a utensil in my kitchen which monsieur would object to have upon his luncheon table. My food is selected as one might select the food for a king.

"Three days ago a great scientist from Paris spent the day with me in my kitchen and my cellars, my larder. He paid me all the compliments a man could pay. Yet the next day it was my dear friend Mme. de Clery who suffered."

"What do the doctors say?" Mr. Laxworthy asked.

"Not one the same. Alas, not one the same! There are all the symptoms, they tell me, of ptomaine poisoning. But there is something else. They contradict one another. But this much seems clear: There is some poison about the place, whether it descends from the clouds or rises from the earth like a miasma."

"Have you any enemies?"

"Not one in the world. Why should I have enemies? I give to the poor; 1 am of a generous disposition: I greet my friends with both hands in the streets. I stand in no man's way."

"I will dine at your restaurant to-night," Mr. Laxworthy decided.

M. Decat nodded his head with satisfaction.

"Good! You have no fear, then?"

"No fear at all," Mr. Laxworthy answered. There is only one thing further I shall require of you: Let me have at my hotel by 7 o'clock, as nearly as you can, a list of the dishes served to your clients who have suffered in this extraordinary manner."

M. Decat agreed gloomily.

"There is little enough there to help you. monsieur," he answered. "They vary from homard Americain to rosbif Anglais."

* * * * *

Mme. de Clery consented to receive Mr. Laxworthy when he called upon her about half an hour later. She was still upon her couch and still looking exceedingly ill. Mr. Laxworthy murmured a few words of sympathy.

"Dear madame," he declared, "the sight of your condition moves me. I am for the first time glad that I came to Monte Carlo."

She attempted to smile.

"You have talked with M. Decat? What do you think of the affair?"

"Until, madame," Mr. Laxworthy answered, "I had the mingled pleasure and unhappiness of raising your fingers to my lips this afternoon I must confess that it in no way appealed to me. It is at once too simple and too complicated." "For my own part," Mme. de Clery remarked, "I should have considered M. Decat the moat popular man of his class in Monte Carlo."

"Precisely," Mr. Laxworthy agreed dryly. "It is just the sort of popularity which breeds envy, However, to-night I dine there. Something may happen. A very slight incident should suffice."

* * * * *

"I eat," Forrest Anderson declared, "in fear of my life."

"I am absolutely without appetite," Sydney Wing agreed, helping himself for the second time to hors d'oeuvres.

"You distress me," Mr. Laxworthy said, glancing at Sydney's plate. "However, to reassure you, I think that to-night you have very little to fear."

"Something has been done?" Forrest Anderson asked.

Mr. Laxworthy sighed.

"Only a few very crude and obvious precautions," he answered! "We have stationed one of the maîtres d'hôtel in whom Decat states that he has implicit confidence in the kitchen among the chefs and two others at the angles of the stairs leading from the kitchen. The whole of the food of the place is now under surveillance from its raw state to to the moment it is served. It is not the way to catch the culprit, but it certainly lessens the risk we run."

"It seems a pity," Sydney Wing remarked, "that we couldn't have had one open night. It doesn't give you a chance, sir."

Mr. Laxworthy pursed his lips.

"I am not sure that I blame M. Decat," he declared. "Look around us. When we were in Monte Carlo last one had to order a table two days beforehand in order to dine here in comfort. To-night the place is nearly half empty."

The waiters themselves were listless. M. Decat's smiles and urbanity when he appeared, a little later than usual, were distinctly overdone. He came at last to the table where Mr. Laxworthy and his companions were seated.

"Monsieur has dined well?" he remarked, with his usual smile and bow. "Everything all right?"

"Your dinner has been excellent," Mr. Laxworthy pronounced.

M. Decat bent a little lower over Mr. Laxworthy's chair.

"Nothing has occurred to monsieur?" he whispered anxiously.

Mr. Laxworthy shook his head.

"Not the ghost of an idea," he admitted. "Come back and see us before we leave."

The little orchestra of five were playing by request the "Intermezzo" from Cavalleria Rusticana. Mr. Laxworthy leaned back in his chair and watched them. He watched too the dark-haired flower girl, who was a privileged and nightly visitor at the restaurant, moving with her basket of flowers from table to table. Presently she reached the spot where they were sitting, and after a moment's, hesitation would have passed on.

"The gentlemen do not care for any flowers this evening?" she murmured.

"On the contrary," Mr. Laxworthy replied. "I should like a bunch of your beautiful lilac to take across to my room. They tell me, mademoiselle, that yours are the most beautiful flowers in Monte Carlo."

She smiled at him very slightly, a smile which seemed only to intensify the white sadness of her face. She bent over the sprays of lilac for a moment. Then she glanced up at Mr. Laxworthy and hesitated.

"Monsieur has paid me so, charming a compliment," she murmured, "that I should like him to have my freshest lilac. It is in the basket outside. If monsieur permits I will return."

She walked slowly away, the basket under her arm. She was a little lame and walked with the help of a stick. She wore no hat and she was dressed in the plainest black robe. There was something in a way fascinating in her appearance. Sydney Wing gazed after her admiringly.

"She is the saddest-looking thing in Monte Carlo," he exclaimed.

"She is a young woman of considerable personal attractions," Mr. Laxworthy declared, watching her pass through the door.

"Honest for her class," Forrest Anderson pointed out. "A smarter young woman would have jumped at the opportunity of passing off her faded flowers on three men."

"There didn't seem to be very much the matter with them," Mr. Laxworthy remarked, a little absently.

The flower girl came back into the room a moment or two later and made her way to their table. She walked with a little limp, which was in itself fascinating, and she brought a magnificent bunch of lilac, which she laid by Mr. Laxworthy's side. Mr. Laxworthy handed her a twenty-franc piece.

"Mademoiselle will permit," he begged. "I have never seen more beautiful lilac."

"Monsieur is very good," she answered hesitatingly. "It is too much."

Mr. Laxworthy shook his head.

"The pleasure, mademoiselle, of buying it from you, and in such delightful surroundings, should count for something," he insisted. "I have a weakness for absolutely fresh flowers. Perhaps to-morrow evening—"

"Monsieur is so kind," she murmured, and passed on with a little smile of assent.

M. Decat returned, himself carrying a bottle of brandy, and followed by a waiter bringing three glasses of huge size and delicately chilled.

"Monsieur has been patronising our little Annette," he remarked. "My clients are all so good to her."

"She seems," said Mr. Laxworthy, "a very pleasing young person."

M. Decat was himself pouring out the brandy.

"They smile at me sometimes," he declared, "because I allow her the run of my restaurant. It is not usual of course, but she is an orphan and supports herself. It is better for her to sell flowers to such clients as mine than to frequent the cafés."

Mr, Laxworthy smelled his brandy and proceeded to roll it round in his glass.

"A native of Monte Carlo?" he inquired.

"By no means," M. Decat answered. "She came here two years ago with an invalid father. The man had been in prison—a shocking character. He died lately."

"Poor child!" Sydney Wing murmured.

"Poor and unfortunate indeed," M. Decat agreed. "Yet in Monte Carlo it is easy enough to live. Now, M. Laxworthy, I await your verdict. What of my brandy?"

"Excellent," he pronounced. "Marvelous!"

"And for the rest?" M. Decat whispered a moment or two later.

"One can do nothing but watch," replied Mr. Laxworthy. "Yet I think I can make you a promise. Within three days your little puzzle shall be solved."

M. Decat was half-relieved, half-incredulous.

"You have seen something, then?" exclaimed. "You are on the track?"

Mr. Laxworthy shrugged his shoulders. It was his manner of dismissing the subject.

"Tell me now," he begged, "of some of your clients. The stout, red faced man, for instance, who has just refused purchase any flowers?"

"A German millionaire," M. Decat whispered. "He spends money here like water. There are, alas! few of interest to-night; but if, indeed, monsieur, you speak the truth, all will soon be well again."

Mr. Laxworthy nodded.

"Rest assured. M. Decat," he said "that all will be well again with you before very long. I have seen enough for one evening. Will you give orders that the same table be reserved for us to-morrow night?"

* * * * *

The restaurant on the following evening was distinctly fuller. M. Decat welcomed his three expected guests with an air almost of triumph.

"Your coming has brought good fortune, M. Laxworthy," he declared. "Some of my old clients are back again. You behold M. le Duc! The Prince Reist is coming with a party. Lady Bolsover sits in the corner with a friend."

"And your German millionaire, I see, returns," Mr. Laxworthy remarked.

M Decat elevated slightly his shoulders.

"The gentleman is not ornamental," he said, with an air of apology, "but he spends the money. To-night he entertains Mlle. Cora, from the Folies Bergères. Mademoiselle dances divinely."

They seated themselves at the table, and M. Decat hurried away to greet more guests.

"Order what you please without fear," Mr. Laxworthy said, taking up a menu. "To-night we are safe."

Both Forrest Anderson and Sydney Wing glanced at him expectantly.

"They will happen no more then, these incidents?" the former ventured to inquire.

Mr. Laxworthy ignored the question.

"Potage petite marmite, perhaps afterward some trout, a chicken and salad," he ordered. "The burgundy we leave to M. Decat."

The atmosphere of the place was indeed changed. Nearly every table was occupied and there were still people arriving. There was a cheerful buzz of conversation. M. Decat and his little corps of maîtres d'hôtel had their hands almost full attending to the wants of their clients. The orchestra played with renewed spirit; the flower girl had twice to leave the room to replenish her basket. Mr. Laxworthy watched thoughtfully as she reached once more the table where the German millionaire and his companion were seated. Again the man shook his head curtly, but his companion stretched out her arms.

"All the roses!" she exclaimed, will have all the roses!"

The flower girl set down the basket which she was carrying and began to put together a great bunch of roses, which presently she laid upon the table. Then she took a single carnation and turned toward the man. It seemed as though she were offering it for his buttonhole. He assented gruffly. At that precise juncture Mr. Laxworthy, who had been watching the little scene with interest, leaned across the table.

"Sydney," he said, "as quickly as you can without making a disturbance go and touch the flower girl on the arm. Tell her to come to this table for a moment. I will not keep her longer. See that she comes at once."

Sydney rose promptly and crossed the room. The girl, with a small syringe in her hand, was in the act of spraying the flower when he addressed her.

"Mademoiselle," he whispered. "my friend across the room, wishes to speak to you without an instant's delay. The matter is one of urgency."

The girl gave a little start, and the flower which she had been holding, slipped from her fingers to the floor. 8he looked across the room at Mr. Laxworthy, who had risen to his feet. Their eyes met. Mr. Laxworthy's face was immovable. The girl began to tremble.

"I will come," she faltered. "I will come at once."

She picked up the carnation from the floor. The man held out the lapel of his coat, but she shook her head.

"It is spoiled, monsieur," she said. "I will arrange another. In a moment I will return."

She came to Mr. Laxworthy like a child in mortal fear of some unknown punishment. She placed the basket of flowers upon the floor and stood before him.

"Monsieur?" she began timidly.

Mr. Laxworthy looked at her steadfastly.

"Mademoiselle," he said, "it would be well that you offer no more flowers here this evening. If you will leave the restaurant by the terrace end there are some seats fronting the gardens. Wait for me there. A matter of five minutes, perhaps."

She picked up her basket without hesitation.

"I shall await, monsieur," she murmured.

Mr. Laxworthy sipped his coffee and watched her thoughtfully as she made her way down the room. His two companions were dumfounded.

"The flower girl!" Sydney exclaimed softly. "How could you—how could any one?"

"A little matter of inspiration," Mr. Laxworthy interrupted, "and a few inquiries."

* * * * *

The girl was leaning forward upon the seat, her face half- covered by her hands, her eyes, lit now with real terror, gazing forward into the velvety darkness. Mr. Laxworthy seated himself deliberately by her side.

"Mademoiselle," he said, "I am not used to sitting out of doors at this season of the year, so I shall be glad to make our interview a short one. Have you anything to say to me?"

"Nothing, monsieur."

"You have no excuse to offer?"

"None."

"Causes always interest me," Mr. Laxworthy continued. "Tell me your story."

"Why should I?"

"Mademoiselle," Mr. Laxworthy said more sternly, "with the little syringe which you have in your pocket you have sprinkled flowers with a poisonous compound, and afterward shaken them over the plates of various people, thereby poisoning them. If this was a wanton act then you deserve—you very richly deserve—the imprisonment which threatens you. On the other hand, if you have anything to say I am ready to hear it."

She turned upon him with a moment's fierceness.

"There is no Justice in this world!" she exclaimed bitterly.

"On the contrary," Mr. Laxworthy said, "the laws of Justice are as inexorable as the pendulum of life itself. Every crime and every evil deed is paid for. You are the daughter of Senekou, the chemist and anarchist. Is it some evil germ from his madness which lingers in your blood?"

Terror and indignation seemed to struggle together in her face as she leaned toward him in the darkness. Mr. Laxworthy, however, was unmoved.

"He was never mad!" she cried. "They did their best to drive him out of his senses, but he was never mad. They kept him in prison for eight years— imprisonment which was in itself a torture. Then we came here. M. Decat employed him, and one day he found out who he was, and dismissed him at a moment's warning. No one else would give him work. He died of starvation. I remain."

"I know your whole history," Mr. Laxworthy said slowly. "I have spent some part of to-day in making inquiries concerning you. Now look me in the face and tell me why you have done thing."

"I did it because I hate M. Decat!" girl replied, in a low tone. "I hate his restaurant, and I would like to see him ruined. I hate the people whom I have made suffer. I hate his whole place and every one in it. Monsieur, you are of the world: you understand. What do you think this city of sunshine and jewels and gay ladies and wealth—hideous, senseless wealth—must mean to me? I saw him grow thinner and more tired every day. It was starvation he died of."

"Mademoiselle," Mr. Laxworthy said, "you carry on a futile warfare. Your father sinned and he paid his debt. You have sinned, but I will make myself your judge. You have suffered in advance. It shall be enough. You have relatives in France. Leave Monte Carlo to-morrow and seek them out. There is in this envelope sufficient to keep you from becoming a burden upon them. Do you accept?"

There was a change in her face. Its white tenseness had gone, her eyes glowed at him, her lips were trembling.

"Monsieur," she gasped, "you mean—you mean—"

"Mademoiselle," Mr. Laxworthy declared, rising to his feet, "there will be no one to interfere with you: only remember this: The debt is paid. I wish you good fortune and a happier life."

Mr. Laxworthy turned up his coat collar and moved away. The girl stood for a moment where he had left her, as though she were in some sort of dream. Then, with the basket upon her arm, she disappeared slowly into the night.</story>