<story title="THE VAGARIES OF THE PRINCE OF LIGURIA" date="1912">
MR. LAXWORTHY took an intelligent interest in the gambling at Monte Carlo. On the day of his arrival he wandered from table to table, keenly interested in watching the different systems of gambling and the physiognomies of the players.

It was not until he had been in the rooms for ever two hours that he ventured a bet on his own account, which he promptly lost, greatly to his disgust. After that his interest waned for a time, and he finally left the rooms and sat by himself before one of the small round tables of the Café de Paris, where he arranged his shawl about his shoulders and ordered a pot of English breakfast tea.

It was precisely at this moment that Mr. Laxworthy's character as a man of gallantry was finally established. Inside the rooms, half an hour before, he had been dimly conscious of the smile I of a woman from the other side of the table, a good looking woman with a mass of red hair, a long lace coat and a little Pomeranian under her arm.

They had brushed against one another at the door, and his apology had been answered a little more graciously, perhaps, than the occasion demanded. She was walking past him now, very slowly, and as she passed she glanced with amusement at Mr. Laxworthy's shawl and teapot.

"Monsieur feels the cold?" she murmured, with a smile.

Mr. Laxworthy rose at once to his feet.

"Without the society of madame," he replied, raising his hat. "To offer tea. perhaps, to a lady so essentially Parisian would be clumsy, but there are other refreshments if madame would condescend."

Madame sank into the chair by his side.

Madame was disposed to take some coffee. She declined a liqueur, however, and Mr. Laxworthy found himself agreeably surprised by her voice and manner.

"It seems strange," she remarked, "to ?talk with any one who finds anything ?new here. For ten seasons I have spent three months of the year here. Can you understand that I am a little weary?"

"You play?" Mr. Laxworthy asked.

She shrugged her shoulders.

"What can one do? I risk a few louis and if I lose I leave off. It is not at the tables that the big gambling is done in Monte Carlo."

"I have been given to understand," Mr. Laxworthy said, "that a great many people go instead to the Sporting Club.*

She smiled.

"There is high play at the Sporting Club," she admitted, "but there are private houses in Monte Carlo where one may see the most extraordinary gambling in the world."

"You interest me," Mr. Laxworthy declared. "I must admit that I find the study of people engaged in gaming particularly interesting. I am in my small way a student of humanity, and the effects of gambling upon certain types of character are more than interesting."

"You are among those who think," she murmured, looking at him out of ?her soft brown eyes. "Please go on and tell me about yourself. You are really a stranger here and you are interested in your fellow creatures?"

"That is entirely my position," he assured her.

"You are alone in Monte Carlo?" she asked.

"With two friends," he replied; "also Englishmen."

"They are like you—personable?" she asked. "Forgive me, but I ask for a reason."

Mr. Laxworthy pointed them out.

They were on the steps of the Casino looking about them. She raised her lorgnette and approved.

"Very good," she declared. "Now you must give me your card and present your friends. Then if it pleases you I shall give you the opportunity of seeing things in this place which may interest you. I have the entrée to a house where play takes place every night for stakes far exceeding anything you can see in the ordinary way. I will take you and your friends there to- night if you promise that you will not talk about your visit."

"Madame," Mr. Laxworthy replied, "it is a promise easy indeed for me to make. I never betray a confidence."

"Your friends are coming," she replied. "You shall present me. My name is de Clery—Mme. de Clery, remember."

"Anderson and Sydney duly arrived and were duly presented. Whatever surprise they may have felt at seeing their chief in such company they effectually concealed. Madame had without doubt the power to charm, and for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour they sat together at the little round table talking gayly. She rose at last, almost regretfully.

"We are to meet again to-night," she "That will be really something for me to look forward to, for so many of my friends are away just now that I am even a little lonely. At what hour would you care to go? Will 11 o'clock be too early?"

"Your own hour, madame," Mr. Laxworthy begged. "We could not, I presume, induce you to dine with us first at Ciro's?"

She hesitated for a single moment.

"I shall be charmed," she replied. "About 8:30, I suppose? Could I trouble your," she added, turning to Sydney, with a little smile. "My automobile is there—no, the gray liveries. If you could step across it would be charming of you."

Sydney hurried across the road, and a moment or two later a handsome automobile, upholstered in white, with chauffeur and footman on the box, and a beautiful bowl of pink roses upon the table, drew slowly up. There was a coronet on the panels. Madame stepped inside, with a little farewell nod.

"It is au revoir, then," she said.

The automobile rolled away. Mr. Laxworthy and his friends followed slowly on foot toward their hotel. In accordance with their established custom, neither Sydney nor Anderson asked a single question. Their curiosity, however, was obvious, and Mr. Laxworthy. after a preliminary cough, proceeded to gratify it.

"You were doubtless somewhat surprised to see me engaged in conversation with a lady of Mme. de Clery's appearance," he remarked. "I can assure you that she is a perfect stranger to me, both personally and by reputation. I make it a rule to converse amiably with any one who addresses me, and the lady in question made, I may say, marked overtures. The inference is naturally simple. She desires to profit by our acquaintance. If she succeeds in amusing us a little, why not? One is willing to pay for amusement."

* * * * *

Madame arrived at Ciro's barely ten minutes late, and justified in every way Mr. Laxworthy's secretly conceived opinion of her. She wore the plainest black evening gown, with only a single ornament suspended from her neck by a band of black velvet Her hat was a triumph of simplicity. Even the gold of her hair seemed subdued by the manner in which it had been dressed.

Mr. Laxworthy had selected a table at the corner of the terrace. Madame took her place with a smile of approval, and buried her face for a moment in the cluster of pink-roses by the side of her plate.

As the dinner progressed it was clear that Mme. de Clery had changed her opinion of her new friends and with her altered point of view a certain uneasiness now and then betrayed itself in her conversation and reference to the evening to come. Toward the conclusion of their repast a trifling incident happened, unnoticed by the others, but appreciated by Mr. Laxworthy.

A little group of three people were leaving the restaurant—a woman and two men, obviously English and obviously people of some consequence. Ciro himself conducted them to the exit, in order to gain which they had to pass within a few feet of Mr. Laxworthy and his guests.

Mme. de Clery had been in the middle of a sentence, which seemed somehow to die away upon her lips. Her fingers were nervously clasped in one another under the tablecloth, her face was suddenly hard and strained. The remnants of her youth and freshness seemed suddenly to have gone. She looked with dull, longing eyes into the face of the woman who passed. Mr. Laxworthy alone saw the recognition, saw the slight drawing away of the newcomer, the frown on the forehead of the tall, good-looking man who brought up the rear of the procession.

The little tragedy—one of those of which the world is full—was over. Mr. Laxworthy leaned over the table and talked for a moment earnestly with his two friends. He had forgotten something of interest to tell them. Madame looked across into the garden and struggled with her ghosts.

The conclusion of the meal was gay. though most of the conversation lay between Sydney and madame. As they rose and strolled out she seemed afflicted by a curious hesitation.

"After all," she said, turning to Mr. Laxworthy. "perhaps it would amuse you more to go into the rooms. There is always plenty to see there and I have not been there in the evening for some time."

Mr. Laxworthy shook his head.

"The rooms will be there another night. Your offer might not be repeated. I have really a fancy to watch this high gambling of which you have spoken."

Madame made no further objection.

"My automobile is at the door," she said. "Come."

They all stepped in.

"To the Villa des Acacias," madame ordered briefly.

They turned toward Mentone, away from the shore, and climbed the great hill. Soon they left the main road and entered a dark avenue, which they circled round and round until suddenly they came to an open space and saw above them the villa, which seemed indeed to be built on the rocks.

Though the night was warm the curtains were apparently all drawn and only by odd chinks of light could one believe that it was inhabited. As they drew up before the front door madame turned round.

"Look!" she said.

"The view," Mr. Laxworthy declared, "is one of the most magnificent in the world. I admit that those lights which seem to be gleaming at our very feet are like the spangles upon a woman's cloak. I do see that it is possible, even at this hour of the night, to catch the outlines of those white buildings which throw their shadows into the sea. It is all wonderful, madame. but it would interest me more just now to see the door open."

She laughed softly at Sydney.

"Really," she declared. "I have met no man for a long time so refreshing as your dear Mr. Laxworthy. Behold!"

The door was opened. A pale-faced man-servant ushered the visitors in.

Fronting them was a great bank of hothouse flowers. Softly shaded electric lights hung from the ceiling. The wide hall was crowded with trophies. A second servant was already relieving them of their coats. A third man had thrown open the door of a small room on the left hand side of the hall.

"We go in here," madame remarked. "At the Villa des Acacias we invert the order of things. It is our hostess who comes to us."

"They found themselves in a charmingly-furnished little apartment, full of divans, books and papers, water-colors of the vicinity upon the wall, photographs everywhere. The servant was arranging coffee and liqueurs upon the sideboard, but save for themselves the apartment was empty. Mme. de Clery, walked restlessly about.

"Our hostess has peculiar ideas," she explained. "I am one of her intimate friends, but she does not permit even me to introduce strangers unless she herself approves. I have telephoned to say that I am bringing you. She will come and talk to us in a minute or two. In all probability she will then invite us to watch the baccarat or the roulette. If she does not there is nothing to be done but to make our bow and depart."

Almost as she spoke the door was opened. The butler who had admitted them stood on one side.

"Mme. la Marquise!" he announced.

A woman of striking appearance entered. She was tall and thin, her face was as white as powder and natural pallor could make it. Her hair was gray, her eyes black. With the same breath she seemed young and elegant, elderly and scholarly. When she spoke her voice was a charm.

"My dear Lucie," she exclaimed, giving both her hands to Mme. de Clery. "this is indeed a pleasure! Present me to your friends."

Mme. de Clery presented them in turn.

"I find in Mr. Laxworthy," Mme de Clery remarked, "an interesting claim upon our sympathies. This is his first visit to Monte Carlo."

The lady who had been announced as Mme la Marquise turned and looked at Mr. Laxworthy. For several seconds she said nothing. Mr. Laxworthy too preserved silence. In a sense the moment was significant.

"Mr. Laxworthy has doubtless been a great traveller in other countries," Mme. la Marquise said softly.

"In my younger life, yes," Mr. Laxworthy assented. "Of late years I have not found it amusing to wander far from home. My health requires attention and my small estate interests me."

"We must do all that we can to make it pleasant for you," Mme. la Marquise replied. "It is charming of you to climb the hill that I may claim from now the pleasure of your acquaintance. Some evenings we play here. It might interest you to watch us. To-night, alas! I am alone"

There was another silence. Mme. de Clery seemed a little discomposed. Mr. Laxworthy's low bow might indeed have been meant to hide his disappointment.

"Mr. Laxworthy," Mme. de Clery said "is a philosopher. I have found him studying expressions in the gaming rooms."

Mme. la Marquise nodded slowly in appreciative attention.

"Mr. Laxworthy has indeed the air of a scholar,"'she remarked. "He will find. I am sure, much in Monte Carlo to interest him."

This time her tone seemed final. The three men glanced at Mme. de Clery for their cue There appeared to be nothing left but to take their leave. Mme. la Marquise herself led the way to the door.

"You will do me the honor, Mr. Laxworthy?" she said. "I shall send you a card in a few days for one of my small parties. You may find them interesting. You stay here? And at what hotel?"

"For a few days only, madame," Mr. Laxworthy replied, "at the Hotel Hermitage."

They were in the hall now and the butler was already moving toward the front door. Then from the door of the front room, a young man, burly, almost corpulent, with flushed face, suddenly appeared. He held out both his hands to Mme. de Clery.

"Ah, Lucie!" he cried. "This is delightful! But you were not going?" Mme. de Clery paused.

"Dear Julien!" she exclaimed. "Indeed I had only brought three friends of mine for the pleasure of presenting them to your aunt."

"Absurd!" the young man declared. "Present me also to your friends. We are dull to-night. M. le Prince has drunk too deeply. All the time he asks for more company. We need livening up. Present me to your friends at once. They must join us."

Mme. la Marquise stood like a figure of stone while the introductions progressed. The newcomer, with his arm through Sydney's, would have led them at once to the room from which he had issued, but Mr. Laxworthy hesitated.

He turned at once toward his hostess.

"Madame," he said, "it is perhaps your wish that we should pay you a visit at some other time?"

"Mr. Laxworthy," she replied. "I appreciate your consideration. I will admit that there are circumstances which made me a little reluctant to offer you the hospitality of my rooms this evening—yet, after all, you three are men. I think that you, Mr. Laxworthy, have learned how to take care of yourself in every part of the world. Stay if you will."

Already the little party was crossing the hall. Mr. Laxworthy and his friends were ushered into a room different in every respect from anything they could have imagined. The floor and panelled walls were of light oak. There were no pictures upon the walls. The furniture consisted only of divans and a number of chairs. The room was almost T-shaped. At the further end was a baccarat table at which three men were seated. At the end nearest to them was a roulette table. Of the men at the other end of the apartment one was tall, red-faced, with a mass of gray hair. The others were insignificant.

"It is M. le Prince who sits there."

Mme. de Clery whispered to Mr. Laxworthy. "One does not introduce here. You play or not, as you choose."

His hostess bent slightly toward Mr. Laxworthy.

"This was what I used to call my music room," she said, "when I built the villa ten years ago. Since then, alas music has become a small thing in Monte Carlo. The fever for gambling is everywhere. To keep my friends I have been forced, as you see, to turn it into a room where one may play."

"The necessity seems regrettable," Mr. Laxworthy remarked, "but I find it interesting. It is indeed strange that in one little corner of the world associations seem inevitably to arouse an instinct that often remains dormant in other countries."

The young man who had been standing on the outskirts of the circle laughed.

"Perhaps you yourself, Mr. Laxworthy," he said, "are beginning to feel that instinct. Will you play? The prince there is eager to take another bank at baccarat."

"I prefer to watch baccarat," Mr. Laxworthy answered dryly. "Roulette, if you will."

"Roulette, by all means," the young man declared. "Playing for so short a a time, the odds in favor of the bank will almost disappear. The house shall make a bank against the visitors, or the visitors shall make a bank against the house—which do you prefer?"

"The visitors are in the majority," Mr. Laxworthy replied. "Let the house take the bank."

The young man seated himself at the wheel. He turned round and called up the room.

"M. le Prince," he said, "we play at roulette. Come and stake some of those thousand-franc notes which you have won from me to-night. What do you says, you others?"

M. le Prince laughed harshly.

"I will come, perhaps, soon," he cried. "At present I restore my nerves with your excellent brandy."

They saw then that his eyes were bloodshot, and it seemed to Laxworthy and his companions that it was the task of the two who sat with him to keep him quiet.

"To-night," the young man declared, "I have no courage. I limit you to a thousand francs in even chances, fifty francs on the numbers, and a hundred francs any combination. At this infernal game I always lose."

They sat down. Mme. de Clery, with Sydney by her side, Mr. Laxworthy opposite, next the young man who took the part of the croupier, and by his side Forrest Anderson. Mme. la Marquise hesitated for a moment. Then she went and stood behind Mme. de Clery's chair.

They played for a dozen coups or so. The bank won and lost, and won again. Mr. Laxworthy was in the act of placing a hundred-franc bill on the space in front of him when the attention of all of them was diverted by an angry voice at the other end of the room.

The prince had risen to his feet. He stood there—a huge, unprepossessing- looking creature, head and shoulders taller than his companions, with bloodshot eyes, puffy cheeks and protuberant veins.

"Let me alone!" he cried thickly. "If I choose to play, I play with whom and when I please."

He pushed one of the men, who would have restrained him, on one side and came slowly down the room toward them. He walked unsteadily. His shirt front was stained with tobacco-ash and coffee. His tie was crooked, his hair unkempt. All the time Mr. Laxworthy watched him approach. The prince eyed them all fiercely.

"Madame la Marquise," he growled, "you would send me home, eh? Not yet! I shall play a little while with these good people. Afterward they shall all play baccarat. Julien takes the bank, eh? Then we know what to expect. Still, I will play. A thousand francs on the red, mon ami."

He stood glowering at them. Mr. Laxworthy's eyes scarcely left his face.

"My dear prince," Madame la Marquise said, "do you realize that you have been here in your present attire since midnight yesterday? To please you I have found people to play baccarat all through the day. My friends here only play roulette. Take my advice and go home."

"Why should I go home?" the prince answered roughly. "I have won money here, I like it here, I like all of you except that miserable young Englishman who insulted me. I have a quick method, monsieur," he continued, turning suddenly toward Laxworthy, "of dealing with those who do not know their places."

The prince glared across the table. Then very slowly he began making his way around it toward where Mr. Laxworthy sat. Mr. Laxworthy sat back and crossed his legs.

The prince was standing now over Mr. Laxworthy. Instead, however, of at once attacking him, he pointed to the end of the room.

"Show them, you there. Mark and Delamores," he called out. "Show them how I treated the young Englishman who grumbled at my naturals. There is another one here who has to be taught his place in a minute. Show them. I say."

Mme. la Marquise glided to his aide.

"M. le Prince," she begged, "all that I could do I have done. For heaven's sake be discreet."

The prince shook himself free.

"Show them, I say!" he called out in a voice of thunder, "or I'll wring your necks where you sit!"

They rose hesitatingly and pushed the table before which they had been sitting to one side. Then one saw that on a sofa behind—the sofa upon which the prince had apparently been sitting? was stretched the figure of a man.

Mme. de Clery sprang to her feet and rushed across the room. It was one of the two men who had dined at Ciro's.

"It is Victor!" she cried. "How did he come here? What has happened?"

"For twenty-four hours." thundered the prince. "I have played baccarat at that table. I have won money, it is true, but I play well. There came to-night that pale-faced Englishman. He spoke of my naturals—there were four following. He asked me a question. There he lies, with my answer upon his temple."

Mr. Laxworthy rose deliberately to his feet. He followed Mme. de Clery across the room. Together they bent for a moment over the young man who lay upon the sofa. Then Mr. Laxworthy turned round.

"Mme. la Marquise," he asked, "is there a doctor to be found?"

She glanced toward the prince.

"A doctor is not necessary," she said, "The young man will recover presently.

Mr. Laxworthy came slowly down the room.

"Sydney," he directed, "you will find a telephone in the hall. Telephone at once to a doctor and to the chief of the police."

The prince threw up his hands and laughed. He stood before the door and raised his huge arms.

"Let me see," he called out. "who will dare to leave this room."

"My friends and I are about to leave it," Mr. Laxworthy replied. "As for you, you will remain here."

The prince smiled?a very ugly smile.

Mme. de Clery came softly down and laid her hand upon Mr. Laxworthy's arm. She was very pale, but she was struggling hard for composure.

"Mr. Laxworthy," she said. "I am sorry that I brought you here. I did not know that the prince was in the house. Believe me, it is no use sending for the police. While he is here he must be obeyed. No one will listen to a word against him. His rule here is one of the most impious things in the world. It is a thing to which you must bow. That young man on the sofa is my own cousin and he is badly hurt. Worse would come of it if we make a scandal."

Mr. Laxworthy quietly disengaged himself.

"All that you say. madame," he replied, raising his voice, "might well be true if that man were indeed M. le Prince. As a matter of fact, I am surprised, Mme. la Marquise, that you should for one moment have been deceived. Look at him closely. I tell you that he is no more the Prince of Liguria than I am. His name I have forgotten, but I will tell you this: he is a Swede, not a Russian, and he bears on his right arm the brand of Sing Sing prison."

The silence which followed could almost be felt. Then, with a roar, the man came at Mr. Laxworthy. Within a few feet he pulled up short and staggered back. Mr. Laxworthy's hand was as steady as ever, and the muzzle of his revolver was black.

"I remember your name now," Mr. Laxworthy continued. "You are Carl Osterhafen. You were thrown into prison in New York for keeping a gambling den. You declared yourself there to be the natural son of a Russian nobleman. It was very likely true.

"Mme. la Marquise," he proceeded, turning toward his hostess, "if this man has won money in your house he should be compelled to restore it. Make him do so now. Sydney, stop those others from leaving."

Osterhafen's companions had tried to reach the door, but were prevented. Mme. la Marquise was shaking with passion.

"Mr. Laxworthy," she said. "I am eternally indebted to you. These two I knew to have once at any rate been in the suite of the Prince of Liguria. They came here yesterday and told me that he was in Monte Carlo incognito. For him I got up a baccarat party last night. There were others who said that he cheated. He has won three hundred thousand francs, which he has about him, and nothing which I could say or do would induce him to leave the place. Tell me what I shall do."

"The young man. who is Mme. de Clery's cousin," Mr. Laxworthy declared, "is not seriously hurt. Insist upon the return of the three hundred thousand francs, restore their losings to your friends and let him go. A scandal here will do no one any good."

Osterhafen swayed upon his feet. The rims under his eyes were purple, his face was diabolical.

"I restore nothing!" he cried. "You little devil!"

Once more he seemed about to fling himself upon Mr. Laxworthy. and once more he pulled up short.

"Osterhafen," Mr. Laxworthy said calmly, "I have dealt with more dangerous brutes than you, and I have never failed to shoot straight when the moment came. Put the money on the table, and be gone before madame changes her mind. The scandal, after all, would be little compared with the pleasure of sending you and your two confederates where you belong. It is not for nothing in Monte Carlo that one personates the head of a royal house and cheats at baccarat."

Osterhafen fell back, His two associates seized hold of him. They talked together rapidly and earnestly. Osterhafen flung upon the floor a great parcel of notes.

"Are you satisfied, madame?" Mr. Laxworthy asked.

"Indeed I am," she replied. "Let them go."

Some one touched the bell. The butler appeared at the door.

"Monsieur le Prince and his suite will leave for Monte Carlo in the automobile of Mme. de Clery," Mr. Laxworthy announced. "Be so good as to tell the chauffeur to return here after he has deposited M. le Prince at his hotel."

The man bowed and held the door open. The three men passed out. The man who had been hurt was sitting up now and Mme. de Clery was at his side, bathing his temple. Mr. Laxworthy replaced his pistol carefully and straightened his glasses.

"I was in the middle of a most interesting little coup," he remarked leading the way to the roulette table. "If it is not imposing upon you, sir, it would give me great pleasure to continue playing while we await the return of the automobile."

Julien sat down in the croupier's chair and spun the wheel with trembling fingers. Mme. la Marquise crossed the room to Mme. de Clery.

"Lucie," she whispered, "where did you find him, this wonderful man?"

Mme. de Clery smiled.

"Sitting outside the Café de Paris drinking English breakfast tea with a gray shawl around his shoulders," she answered.

Mme. la Marquise shook her head. She looked at the notes which she held in her hand. She looked at Mr. Laxworthy, intent once more upon his system.

?"Mr. Laxworthy?"

"Madame?"

"Have you,by chance, ever heard the fable of your great Scotchman,Robert Bruce, and the spider?"

"Without a doubt, madame, Mr. Laxworthy replied without looking up from the board.

"Will you remember," she begged "that if ever the spider can help I and my house are at your service? You will not forget?"

"Madame, Mr. Laxworthy assure her, straightening his spectacles for a moment and turning toward her, "I forget nothing."</story>