<story title="THE CASE OF MR. AND MRS. STETSON" date="1912">
MR. JOHN T. LAXWORTHY, Mr. Forrest Anderson and Sydney Wing were standing together upon the railroad platform at Toulon. Sydney Wing, who acted always as courier to the little party, was beginning to get a trifle irritable. As yet he had received no precise instructions as to their destination.

The train de luxe from London had just thundered in. Notwithstanding the early hour, a fair number of passengers had already descended. These, however, instead of occupying themselves in the usual manner by buying coffee or flowers were standing about talking to one another.

Several of the attendants were talking together with the station-master and another official of the railway company. No less than four gendarmes, accompanied by an inspector, were drawn up opposite a certain compartment of the train.

"Something has happened," Mr. Forrest Anderson with rare acumen ventured to observe.

"A man has been killed—probably murdered," Mr. Laxworthy, who had been watching intently the inspector's lips, declared.

"I will go and get the tickets and our luggage registered to Monte Carlo," Sydney Wing decided promptly.

The inspector who was in charge of gendarmes held a little informal court of inquiry upon the platform. Then he disappeared into the train. Presently his head was to be seen from a window. He beckoned to the four gendarmes, who also boarded the train. Mr. Laxworthy a few moments later followed them. When he reappeared he was looking a little annoyed.

"Raining hard in London," Mr. Laxworthy announced gloomily. "Also a fog."

"Can't see that it makes any difference to us," Mr. Forrest Anderson remarked cheerfully. "It'll be all right at Monte, anyhow."

"It matters," Mr. Laxworthy declared, "because we happen to be going to London."

Mr. Anderson started slightly.

"Not interested in this little affair after all, then?

"On the contrary," Mr. Laxworthy replied, "I am very much interested in it. Only it is my opinion that monsieur the inspector is making rather a mistake in going on. Back to London is my idea. We shall see."

"What happened anyhow?" Mr. Anderson asked.

"Unpleasant affair," Mr. Laxworthy explained, with some relish. "Elderly English gentleman, travelling alone, chloroformed and strangled in his sleeping berth. Not a sound heard. Attendants sleeping at both ends of the car all night. Empty pocketbook discovered at foot of bed. Man's name Simonds. Presumptive evidence that he was a bookmaker and was going to Monte Carlo to shoot pigeons."

"What about the passengers who have descended here?"

There were only two," Mr. Laxworthy replied. "You can see them over there, the young couple waiting for the Hyères train The inspector has examined their tickets and asked them a few questions. He has apparently no further interest in them."

Mr. Anderson nodded.

"Honeymooners," he declared positively. "New clothes, new luggage, man looking like a self-conscious ass, girl wearing a thick veil. Look! he's buying her flowers. See him squeeze her hand then?"

"Just a trifle overdone," Mr. Laxworthy remarked critically. "Not bad though The telegram will be a good test."

"What telegram?"

"He has arranged to have a telegram calling him back to London delivered within a few minutes," Mr. Laxworthy replied. "He is looking about for it much too anxiously."

"Do you mean to say that these two are concerned in the murder?" Mr. Forrest Anderson asked in sudden amazement.

"Of course they are!" Mr. Laxworthy answered a little irritably. "Why else should I have pointed them out to you?

"Let us walk up the platform a little distance; so. Now back again. Watch this man, my friend. Here is psychological interest for you if you like. Such a chance may never occur to you again. You can study at close quarters the features and deportment of a man who within the last few minutes, mind—certainly within the last hour—has committed a brutal murder. To the casual observer he seems callous and unconcerned, doesn't he? In reality he is nothing but a quivering mass of nerves and suspicions. Did you see his face twitch then?"

They passed within a few feet of the couple. The man was young, of medium height, with broad shoulders, a brown mustache and somewhat florid complexion. His companion was slim and small. Her figure was certainly girlish, but very little of her face could be seen. She seemed certainly either shy or nervous. Her hands were linked in her husband's arm, and she kept whispering in his ear.

They were both well enough dressed, but their clothes were a little obvious in their newness. Their deportment, too, when one studied it closely was suspicious. The man's exuberant good spirits were overdone; the girl's timidity was perhaps real, but the reason for it seems insufficient. Forrest Anderson was hugely interested.

"Did you notice," he whispered as they passed down the platform, "how much the man's hand was shaking?"

Mr. Laxworthy nodded.

"An amateur criminal," he decided, beyond doubt. Certain to be caught in the long run. It isn't reasonable to suppose that an affair like that"—Mr. Laxworthy waved his hand toward the train—"can be successfully carried through by bungler."

Sydney came hurrying up with the tickets.

"You will keep one of these," Mr. Laxworthy told him, "and proceed as far as Nice. You can wire us the course of events to the cloakroom, Lyons, and to Charing Cross Station. Anderson and I are returning to London."

In a moment or two the great train pulled slowly out of the station. From where Mr. Laxworthy and his companion stood they caught a glimpse of the fateful compartment with the blind carefully lowered and at the adjoining windows an impression of the gendarmes.

Mr. Laxworthy and his companion obtained seats in the train with some little difficulty. They found themselves, however, in an empty compartment vacated by some passengers descending at Costabelle.

"I wonder where our friends are now?" Mr. Anderson remarked as they proceeded to settle themselves down for the journey.

Very soon they [heard the sound of a sound of a loud] discussion to the next compartment.

Suddenly the young man himself appeared in the doorway.

"Are these two seats engaged, sir?" he asked.

"They are not," Mr. Laxworthy replied. The young man disappeared, and presently ushered in his wife, and began to pile up the rack with small articles of luggage.

"Hope we're not disturbing you," he said, "but the next carriage was full up, and there was an old Frenchman near the window wouldn't have it moved."

"Foreigners are somewhat peculiar with regard to fresh air," Mr. Laxworthy admitted. "Would the young lady care for my seat near the window?"

"Oh, please not!" she exclaimed. "I am quite comfortable here.".

Their name, it appeared, was Stetson, and they had been married four days.

The girl's home had been at Balham and the man's at Manchester. By the time they had passed Marseilles the quartet were on such terms that Mr. Laxworthy had ordered a bottle of wine and some biscuits to drink the health of the newly married couple.

"By the bye," he remarked, "my friend and I thought we saw you waiting by the Hyères train."

It was the critical moment. Mr. Laxworthy had asked his question with apparently unconscious but subtle suddenness. The embarrassment of the two, however was tempered with smiles.

With a hearty laugh the young man explained. "We were going to Hyères," he said, "but, to tell you the truth. I've got a mother-in-law who is rather a nuisance to us. It was all we could do to stop her from starting on the honeymoon with us, and just an hour or so ago I had a telegram to say that she had gone on to Hyères and was waiting for us there. We couldn't either of us stick it. We are going to pretend we didn't get the telegram and we are going back to Paris to spend the rest of our time there."

Mr. Laxworthy commended their plan, and, the wine being finished, he dosed.

Mr. Anderson, who had made up his mind, said nothing. They lunched almost to silence, and on their return surprised their fellow travellers sitting very close together indeed. The girl hid her face behind a magazine; the man grinned unabashed.

"At Lyons," Mr. Anderson whispered, "we shall receive a telegram."

Mr. Laxworthy nodded. He was remarkably sparing of speech for the remainder of that journey. He had even given up watching his fellow passengers. At Lyons the telegram came. He opened it with firm fingers, but he felt beforehand a grim conviction as to its contents. It was dated from Nice a few hours back:


ATTENDANT OF TRAIN ARRESTED. PORTION OF MURDERED MAN'S PROPERTY FOUND UPON HIM. SIMPLE CASE. SYDNEY.

Mr. Anderson coughed as he handed it back to his chief.

The remainder of the journey was uneventful. On the following morning, having collected their luggage, Mr. Anderson presented himself at the cloakroom in case there should be any further telegrams from Sydney. He came back to Mr. Laxworthy with two.

The first which he opened was unexpectedly long.

"It's in our cipher!" Mr. Anderson exclaimed.

They found a small table, and Mr. Laxworthy, with the book before him, commenced to decode the message. Except for one startled exclamation from Mr. Anderson they neither of them spoke till their task was completed. The message also was from Nice:


A THOUSAND CONGRATULATIONS AND APOLOGIES. ATTENDANT ONLY ACCOMPLICE. HAS MADE FULL CONFESSION. MURDER WAS COMMITTED BY FAMOUS AMERICAN CRIMINAL, GREENLAW, TRAVELLING WITH YOUNG WOMAN, POSING AS HONEYMOONERS. CAPTURE OF GREENLAW A VERITABLE TRIUMPH. ONCE MORE MY HUMBLE CONGRATULATIONS. SYDNEY.

"I asked him once," Mr. Laxworthy said slowly, whether, he had travelled in America, I fancied I caught suspicion of an accent. What is in the other telegram?"

Mr. Anderson tore open the envelope. They read it together. It was dated from Paris in the early hours of the morning:


HAVE JUST DRUNK YOUR HEALTH AT A PLEASANT LITTLE SUPPER PARTY. MS. AND MRS. STETSON OF MANCHESTER.
* * * * *

Mr. Laxworthy, spent the greater part of his time during the next few days in a state of curious absorption. He did not stir out from the small suite st the Milan which had been reserved for him. On the third day Sydney Wing arrived. Mr. Anderson met him at the station and explained the situation.

"Our chief," Forrest Anderson remarked, "is suffering from profound mortification. This is his first failure."

"I would have given a good deal," Sydney Wing declared wistfully, "to have seen you four in the railway carriage!"

Mr. Anderson smiled grimly.

"It was," he admitted, "the most superb piece of acting I have ever seen. Until all these particulars about the man came out to the newspapers during the last few days I must admit that the whole affair was absolutely incomprehensible. Now, we know that he too understands the lip language."

"And many, other tricks as well," Sydney remarked. "They say that no one else to the world has been so skillful at disguises. There isn't a reliable description, of the fellow in existence."

"I could give a pretty close one," Mr. Anderson grunted. "I sat within a couple of yards of the fellow for the best part of twelve hours."

"According, to those detectives down there, his changes of appearance are almost miraculous."

"Is the identity of the girl known?" Mr. Anderson asked.

Sydney shook his head.

"It is through his penchant for women that they hope to catch him some day," he replied. "They say that this last enterprise must have brought him to over 10.000."

Once at the Milan they ascended the stairs and knocked at the door of Mr. Laxworthy's sitting room. Mr. Anderson barely repressed an exclamation of surprise. Mr. Laxworthy was sitting before a table covered with notes and newspapers. A visitor who had very much the air of a detective was just departing. Mr. Laxworthy welcomed his two friends briskly.

"Sit down, Sydney, if you please," he invited. "I have a list here of thirty questions to ask you. Afterward I shall require to be alone for an hour."

Mr. Laxworthy seemed anxious to hear every incident which had happened at Nice and every item of gossip, even the idlest concerning the man Greenlaw. He made notes of some of Sydney's replies and dismissed him finally with a little wave of the hand.

"I have a little work to do privately," he announced, "At six o'clock I shall want you both. You, Anderson, had better be prepared for a journey. I may want you to go to Paris."

* * * * *

Forrest Anderson left for Paris by the night train with a sealed letter of instructions in his pocket not to be opened until he had actually arrived in the city. Sydney Wing was invited to call upon his chief at nine o'clock that same evening. He found Mr. Laxworthy with a letter spread out before him upon the table.

"Come in, Sydney, and close the door," the latter directed. "As you may have surmised, we are interested in the case of this man Greenlaw. My friend John Marlin has been giving me some interesting information, He is now deputy inspector at Scotland Yard.

"It seems that Scotland Yard has been trying to arrest this man for the last three years and for the last twelve months at least there has been a detective over here from New York looking for no one else. The fellow has great gifts without a doubt, but success has made him overconfident.

"What do you think of this for bravado? It is addressed to Detective Marlin and was delivered to him at Scotland Yard. He brought it to me here only a few hours ago." And Mr. Laxworthy read this letter:


MY DEAR FRIEND MARLIN: You fellows make me tired. There's no fun to be had over on this aide, so I'm off home, and pretty quick too. You've been after me for three years, and I've never had even to hurry to get out of your way. You've seven jobs up against me. most of them "lifers." but you're just about as slow as that old deadhead from New York who has been traipsing after me for the Lord knows how long!
Now I'm a bit of a sport and I'm going to give you your last chance. There's some money of mine lying in London, and I'm coming over myself to get it on Tuesday, May 15. I shan't tell you by what train, or where I am going to stay, but it will probably be at one of your best hotels, and I shall remain in London until Saturday. Now do make one last effort. It would really give me a thrill to meet you face to face and read suspicion in your eye.
Come, why should we not take a drink together? I will make an appointment with you. I am very fond of a glass of vermouth before my dinner. Between 6 and 7 each evening I am in London I shall call either at the bar of the Milan Hotel, the Metropolitan Bar. or Fitzhenry's. Shall I say au revoir?
Yours, DAN GREENLAW.

"Do you believe that he means to come?" 8ydney asked eagerly.

"Marlin himself," Mr. Laxworthy said, "has not the slightest faith in the letter. He believes it to be a complete hoax. I believe that he will come. I have thought this matter out very carefully indeed? I have come to a certain conclusion. I may be wrong. We shall see. On the other hand, if I am right it will, I must confess, afford me a peculiar satisfaction. I shall not easily forget that journey from Toulon.

"To-morrow," continued Mr. Laxworthy, "is Tuesday. Marlin of course is all for watching trains and that sort of thing. Greenlaw, if he comes, will probably travel by motor car from some insignificant port. I have some idea of asking you to frequent the bar-rooms which he mentions, with the exception of the Milan. I will attend to that myself."

"Are there any descriptions of the man?" Sydney asked. "I know his height, which I suppose he cannot alter —six foot exactly—and they say he is fairly broad, and his natural complexion is florid."

Mr. Laxworthy nodded thoughtfully.

"Well," he said, "I have an idea of my own. I have mentioned it to Marlin, but he only laughs at me. Nothing remains but for me to test it myself."

* * * * *

Mr. Laxworthy on the following evening drank vermouth at Fitzhenry's, mixed vermouth at the Metropolitan and a cocktail at the Milan, without the slightest result. He dined alone, in a very bad temper, went to bed early, and received this letter next morning:


MY DEAR OLD LADY: So you are in the game too! It made my heart ache this evening to see you trotting round to these bars and peering into every strange face from behind those disfiguring spectacles of yours. Besides, at your time of life, three aperitifs are extremely bad for the digestion. I can assure you that I felt quite guilty when I saw you struggling with your third.
Come, now, to-morrow night. I will have mercy. We will leave out the Metropolitan. I don't know how it struck you, but I didn't care for the place at all A very mixed crowd, and I had my doubts of the vermouth. We will visit Fitzhenry's and the Milan only. Who knows but that we may have luck and drink our cocktail together. Ever yours, D.G.

Mr. Laxworthy showed this letter to several mysterious personages from Scotland Yard and to Sydney Wing. They all treated it in the same manner. Scotland Yard concentrated upon the Metropolitan, and from six will half past seven every harmless stranger who drank his cocktail or sherry and bitters was subjected to a very searching and inquisitive scrutiny.

Mr, Laxworthy, on the other hand, obeyed strictly the invitation of his letter. He visited Fitzhenry's first and after half an hour there drove to the Milan. From the small smoke-room it was possible to see into the American bar through a glass swing-door. Mr. Laxworthy peered into the room and stood for an instant quite still. A very small and apparently a very young gentleman of Indian extraction was leaning against the wall with a cocktail before him. Mr. Laxworthy turned to Sydney, who accompanied him.

"Sydney," he said, "the thing is finished. You see those two men in the corner of the smoke-room?"

Mr. Laxworthy pointed out two harmless-looking individuals who were talking together upon a settee. Sydney nodded. At that moment one cf them looked up cautiously. Mr. Laxworthy beckoned to them. They came over at once.

"You will hold this door," he said in a low tone. "The man for whom we are seeking is inside."

"Let me go in with you, sir!" Sydney begged.

Mr. Laxworthy assented. They approached the bar. The young man who was leaning against the counter was dressed in the height of fashion. His silk hat was exceedingly glossy, his shirt front immaculate. He was really very little darker than an ordinary olive-skinned Englishman. He eyed the newcomers a trifle insolently and turned to his cocktail. Mr. Laxworthy stood by his side.

"Will you give me a cocktail—the same as you mixed for this gentleman, if you please?" Mr. Laxworthy ordered. The barmaid mixed it in silence. As they all three stood there a somewhat curious change took place in the attitude of the young man. He slipped furtively back from the counter. Mr. Laxworthy turned suddenly toward him.

"My friend," he said, "Daniel Greenlaw, or Mrs. Stetson, or whatever it pleases you to call yourself this evening, I have come to take my aperitif with you."

Mr. Laxworthy was absolutely prepared, and he was without doubt extraordinarily proficient in all the ordinary tricks of wrestling and jiu-jitsu. Nevertheless, he was lying two seconds later upon his back in the bar.

The young man sprang tor the door, saw the two figures waiting there him, and hesitated. The moment's hesitation was fatal. Sydney's arms went round him from behind. Even then he struggled like a wild cat, and it took the united efforts of the three men to secure him.

Marlin arrived just as the struggle was over. He shook his head doubtfully when he saw their prisoner.

"This isn't Greenlaw!" he exclaimed.

Mr. Laxworthy smiled.

"You take him along," he directed, "and I promise you that when I am brought up before the magistrate to-morrow morning I will prove that he is Greenlaw half a dozen times over."

* * * * *

Mr. Laxworthy dined that night in a café with Mr. Forrest Anderson, who had returned from Paris, and Sydney Wing. He was in high good humor.

"You see," he explained, "the man has been wanted for three years. No one has ever laid hands upon him. Every description of him is the same. Naturally I began to wonder whether something might not be wrong with description.

"I read up all the notes about him that were collected by Scotland Yard, and I noticed that although he had the reputation of having endless women friends he was invariably accompanied by a small, dark woman, especially when any particularly startling outrage was on foot. It ?just occurred to me as possible and ingenious that the might have concealed his identity all these years, and gone about as his own companion.

"His Mrs. Stetson was certainly wonderfully done, but there were one or two flaws, and when I came to put everything together I felt pretty certain that my guess was a true one. Marlin and his men were looking everywhere for a big man. I was looking for the real, unknown Greenfield, a small, dark man in any plausible kind of disguise. The fellow's last little bit of bravado will cost him his life.

A porter from outside came up and addressed Mr. Laxworthy.

"I beg your pardon, sir," he announced, "but there is an important telephone message for you from Charing Cross Hospital."

Mr. Laxworthy stepped Into the phone booth.

"Is this Mr. Laxworthy?" a voice inquired.

"Yes."

"I am Dr. Wendell of the Charing Cross Hospital," the voice continued. "I am requested to give you a message by a man named Marlin, who has just been brought in badly hurt."

"What is it?" Mr. Laxworthy asked.

"He wishes me to tell you that Greenlaw is free. He has stabbed one policeman and hurt Marlin badly. He escaped from the cab, and so far they have not been able to recapture him. Martin wants you to be exceedingly careful, as this man Greenlaw will probably feel that he has a grudge against you. Excuse me, if you will, I am In a hurry."

Mr. Laxworthy went back to his dinner.

"Greenlaw," he announced, "has escaped."

"We shall have to begin all over again," Sydney Wing declared.

Mr. Laxworthy shook his head.

"On the contrary," he pronounced. "I have finished my campaign against Daniel Greenlaw. I am no longer on the side of the authorities. I delivered into their hands a dangerous criminal, and they have let him go. Such things are dangerous and—unremunerative. It is you who run the risk, and Scotland Yard which takes the credit. Our standing account demands a move in other directions."

"You have something in your mind!" Forrest Anderson exclaimed.

"For one week," Mr. Laxworthy said firmly, "you will both leave me. I will remain where I am and I will be alone. A week from to-day we come together here. If nothing has occurred in the meantime it is possible that on that occasion I may have something to propose.</story>