<story title="THE DISAPPEARANCE OF MR. COLSHAW" date="1912">
MR. LAXWORTHY was lunching in the grill room of the Milan Hotel in London when Sydney Wing passed through the swing doors, escorting a remarkably pretty young lady. He at once conducted his companion toward his chief.

"Mr. Laxworthy," he said. "I want to introduce you to this young lady—Miss Phyllis Thorndyke."

Mr. Laxworthy rose and bowed. A waiter pushed forward a chair, into which the girl—she was little more than a child—subsided.

"Miss Thorndyke," Sydney continued, "is in great distress, and it occurred to me that you might perhaps be of assistance to her."

Mr. Laxworthy looked at the young lady for several seconds through his thick spectacles. The result of his observations was entirely in her favor.

"I should be very glad indeed to be of any assistance to you, Miss Thorndyke," he murmured. "I have noticed that for the last few days you have been alone."

8he made a little effort to recover herself. It was obvious that she was on the point of tears, and there was a frightened expression in her large, soft eyes.

"It is four days," she said, "since my father left me to pay a business call in the city. He expected to be back for lunch. That was Thursday morning at half past ten. I have not seen him since."

"Your father, I presume, is the tall gentleman with the iron-gray hair whom I have seen in here with you?"

She nodded.

"We have been staying here for nearly a week," she replied. "You must have seen us together, because we have no friends. I have not spoken to any one except the hotel and shop people since we arrived—until, she added, Mr. Wing was so kind to me."

Mr. Laxworthy glanced at the young man inquiringly.

"There, was a little foreign chap who persisted in following Miss Thorndyke about," Sydney explained.

Mr. Laxworthy cleared his throat.

"Referring to your father's disappearance," he continued, "this seems to me a case in which you should certainly inform the hotel people, and, through them, the police. Your father may have met with some slight accident, and in such cases the police are in direct touch with the hospitals."

Silently the young lady drew a thin sheet of paper from the small bag she was carrying, and passed it across the table. Mr. Laxworthy read the few lines of typewritten communication:


In case I am not home for some little time, Phyllis. I am sending you enclosed a note for twenty pounds. Do not mention my absence to any one. It would do no good and might easily involve me in further trouble. I can only tell you that I hope to be back very soon. Whatever you do, do not apply to communicate with the police. Your father, STEVENS THORNDYKE.


The signature was in ink.

"You father's handwriting?" Mr. Laxworthy asked.

She assented confidently. Mr. Laxworthy turned the envelope over in his fingers.

"How did you get this?"

"It was was found on the hall porter's desk on the morning father disappeared, about luncheon time. No one knows who brought it or how it got there."

"It is the only communication you have received from him?"

"Absolutely!"

Mr . Laxworthy was silent for a few momenta.

"Miss Thorndyke," he said finally, I am to be of any service to you, I must ask you some more questions. How long have you been in this country?"

"A week to-day."

"Have you any friends at all in London?"

"Not one. I have never been here before."

"Is this a pleasure trip or a business one on our father's part?"

"I will tell you just what happened. I left boarding school about six months ago. We had an apartment, my father and I, on Riverside Drive, in New York.

"One evening we were out motoring and stopped at a restaurant for supper. There was a big, yellow car which had been just behind ours for over an hour, wherever we went.

"It.drew up too at the restaurant, and as my father was talking about a table to the waiter a man who had been riding in it touched my father on the elbow and gave him a note. I didn't like the looks of the man at all, but be didn't seem to want any answer. Just handed the note to my father and drove away.

"I couldn't help being a little curious about the matter, because it seemed such a strange time and a strange way to deliver a message. I did not ask any questions, however, because I could see that my father was very much upset.

"He drank three cocktails one after another, a thing which I had never seen him do before, and he was very white and shaken. He told me then, as are were sitting there, that as soon as we got home I must pack my trunks, as we were going to Europe the next day."

"He gave no reason for this extraordinary haste?" Mr.Laxworthy asked.

"None it all He was always so grave and silent that it was difficult for me to ask him questions. But 1 did ask him about the man in the yellow car who brought him the note. Naturally I could not help connecting that with our sudden journey."

"And what did your father say?"

"He told me that it was a message for which he had been waiting for many years. He said it quite quietly, but there little points of fire in his eyes when he spoke. The next day we sailed for England."

"Did you gather that your father was with the message, or angry, or frightened?"

"I could only say that he was agitated."

Mr. Laxworthy, after a few moments continued to ask questions.

What was your father's occupation?"

"I do not know. He had an office near Broadway where he went every morning and stayed till three or four. He never talked about his business."

"He had no business friends?"

"We had no friends at all—none except those we met at the beach or wherever we were, and we just knew our neighbors to nod to."

"There appear to have been all the elements of a first-class mystery about your father's life," Mr. Laxworthy remarked dryly. "Did you ever wonder [about the nature of his affairs?]"

"[I know nothing about his business," she re]minded him, "and father always hated being asked questions."

Mr. Laxworthy stirred his coffee thoughtfully.

"Is there any single person in America to whom one could cable for further information as to your father's business?" Mr. Laxworthy inquired.

"There was a lawyer named Gideon," she remembered. "I don't even know his address, though."

"Any one else?"

She shook her head decidedly.

"Do you know anything of your father's history at all?"

"Very little," she replied. "There was really no one to tell me. I know that he used to live a good deal in England and France. I have been in boarding schools ever since I was a child. My mother died before I could remember."

The hall porter suddenly appeared, making his way toward them through the maze of tables. He bowed to the young lady.

"This note has just been left for you, Miss Thorndyke," he announced. "I thought you would like to have it at once."

She took it from him eagerly. Mr. Laxworthy beckoned to the hall porter to come a little-closer.

"Can you tell us who brought that note?"

"I am sorry, sir. but my attention was distracted for a moment. I was answering the telephone. When 1 looked round the note was upon the counter. There was no sign of any one waiting for an answer."

Without a word the girl pushed the sheet of paper toward Mr. Laxworthy. Upon it there was only a single line of typewritten matter:


"I send you twenty pounds. Be careful to obey the injunctions which I have laid upon you."


This time the message was signed with initials only.

"You had better," Mr. Laxworthy suggested, "leave the matter entirely in my hands until to-morrow morning."

"You are really going to try to help me, then?" she asked hopefully. She was certainly rather a pathetic spectacle.

"I shall be glad to do what I can," he promised "You have set me rather a difficult task, though."

The three of them had risen to their feet together and they turned toward the exit of the restaurant. She had no sooner taken a few steps than she stopped short. She turned toward Mr. Laxworthy and gripped him by the arm. Her eyes seemed suddenly to have become distended.

"Mr. Laxworthy," she whispered, "quick! Look! You see that man at the table there—the one with the lady?"

Mr. Laxworthy followed her gesture.

"It is the man," she declared hoarsely, "who was in the yellow car! Wait. I shall speak to him."

Mr. Laxworthy pushed, her firmly along.

"Miss Thorndyke," he begged, "don't do anything of the sort. If that man is really the one who brought your father the message it is all the more reason why you should leave me to find out what I can about him. I know something of the woman who is with him."

She turned reluctantly away. As they passed out of the restaurant into the little reception room Mr. Laxworthy had the air of a man who is genuinely in earnest.

"Miss Thorndyke," he said earnestly, "If you really desire me to help you in this matter you must do exactly as I tell you. You must not think of going back and accosting that man. You must go to your room now at once and stay there for a short time."

"But I am sure," she objected, "that that was the man in the yellow motor car. Why shouldn't I go and speak to him? He ought to be able to tell us why my father left America so suddenly."

"Doubtless be could tell us," Mr. Laxworthy assented. "The question is whether he would. I am inclined to agree with you that he may be concerned in your father's disappearance, but if we are to gain any real benefit through your recognition of him we must keep that fact a secret. Do as I ask you, I beg. Leave me for a time, at any rate, to do the best I can for you."

She sighed as she turned reluctantly away. Mr. Laxworthy and Sydney Wing reentered the restaurant.

"My young friend, have you lunched?" asked Mr. Laxworthy.

"Excellently," replied Sydney.

"A little unfortunate," his chief sighed, "because one of us has to lunch again. We will sit here, if you please. Now order whatever you like. I shall drink coffee and watch the man who your little friend, Miss Thorndyke, believes is concerned in her father's disappearance. You recognize, perhaps, the young lady who is his companion? It is just possible that their conversation may be interesting."

A few yards away from them the man talked continually with his companion. It was quite three-quarters of an hour before they rose to go. On their way out Paula Garesworthy paused at their table.

"Ah, Mr. Laxworthy!" she exclaimed.

Mr. Laxworthy rose to his feet.

"My dear young lady," he murmured, "It is charming to see you once more."

She hurried on with a little word of farewell. The man turned to her and asked her a question, glancing over his shoulder st Mr. Laxworthy. Then they disappeared. Sydney leaned across the table.

"Well?" he demanded.

"Nothing much," Mr. Laxworthy admitted. "One or two little points, however, were interesting."

"The young lady who affected to see me just now for the first time not only saw me some time ago but she carefully warned her companion. They have been talking absolute drivel—simply, I am sure, for effect.

"I feel convinced of this because as I entered the restaurant for the first time, before your protegée had appeared, I read a single sentence upon that man's lips which made me wonder. I put it aside in my mind as being just one of those fragments that one comes across— little detached epitomes of tragedy so entirely isolated that one simply wonders in curiosity and passes on."

"What were the words?"

Mr. Laxworthy rose from his place a little abruptly.

"'Power over your enemies, the power of life and death, is worth waiting for, is worth waiting for!' What did he mean by that, I wonder? Come."

The two men passed out into the hall. Mr. Laxworthy rang for the elevator. Then he came back and discussed with Sydney some trifling matter. Paula Garesworthy and her escort were parting at the door which led to the street.

["You go east?" the latter asked.]

She shook her head.

"I am going west," she replied, "and you, I imagine—"

"I am going to the city," he admitted smilingly. "We poor slaves, you know, must content ourselves with a snatched half-hour or so of relaxation."

"Au revoir, then!" she exclaimed, waving her hand.

She watched him drive off. Then she turned around and made her way at once to where Mr. Laxworthy was standing.

"I want to speak to you," she said.

Mr. Laxworthy showed no surprise. He led her to a couch set back in a corner of the place.

"Mr. Laxworthy," she began, "I know that you go about the world looking always for new things, new adventures, new interests. Nothing has puzzled me more than the fact that you should be interested in the affair of Stevens Thorndyke."

"How do you know that I am interested in his affair?" Mr. Laxworthy asked.

"It was his daughter who was telling you that pitiful story," she reminded him. "You were evidently interested. You re-entered the restaurant upon some excuse. You sat and watched us."

"And why should I connect you with the affair of 8tevens Thorndyke?"

"Because," the girl told him. "that child recognized my companion as the man who had given her father the note at the Claremont restaurant a fortnight ago which summoned him to England. Is that not true?"

"It is quite true," Mr. Laxworthy confessed.

"Mr. Laxworthy," she said in a low tone, "I am going to give you some advice, not for my sake, but for your own. There is nothing in it for you. I give you my word that there is nothing."

"But the child?" Mr. Laxworthy asked. "What is one to do about her?"

Paula Garesworthy rose to her feet and held out her hand.

"I have warned you, Mr. Laxworthy," she said, "because I like you. You must do as you think best"

Mr. Laxworthy escorted his companion to the door. While waiting for a cab he made a little farewell speech.

"You have given me some very useful advice, Miss Garesworthy," he remarked. "Let me reciprocate. I do not know that it is well for a young lady of your age to be seen lunching in a public restaurant with a man who has spent at least seven years of his life in prison."

She stood very still for a moment.

"You know everything!" she murmured.

"I know at least Richard Wardley," he answered.

The taxicab was at the door. She turned toward it.

"Well," she said, "such associations are part of the price I must pay for my bohemianism. you know. Nevertheless. Mr. Laxworthy, balance your advice against mine. Believe me when I tell you that there is no danger whatever for me in such companionship compared with the danger that awaits you if you disregard my warning."

She stepped into the cab with a little farewell wave of the hand. Mr. Laxworthy went round to see his friend, Mr. Marlin of Scotland Yard.

"I wonder," Mr. Laxworthy asked him, "if you remember anything about the London and South Westminster Bank robbery. It must have been—let me see—about ten or twelve years ago."

Mr. Marlin looked at his questioner curiously.

"Of course I remember," he replied "There were four men concerned in it —Richard Wardley got seven years, came out some time ago and went into business; Colshaw, four years; changed his name to Thorndyke and went to America; Proudson, twelve years, and the fourth man we never caught. We always believed that Greenlaw was in it. They shot the manager and got away with a lot of specie. I should think they must have cleared about thirty thousand pounds by it."

"Ah!" Mr. Laxworthy murmured. "Why did Colshaw get only four years?"

Mr. Marlin shook his head.

"I can't give away secrets you know, Mr. Laxworthy. Why on earth do you want to know? Queer that you should ask me about this. Proudson came out last week."

"Is that so?" Mr. Laxworthy asked. "I suppose if I wanted five minutes conversation with him—"

"Oh, I could find him fast enough if that's what you're after!" Marlin interrupted, "or Richard Wardley, either, for that matter. So long as we were allies, you understand. I can't have you come poking about among my pets unless I am on to the game."

"Quite so," Mr. Laxworthy agreed. "I wish you'd tell me why Colshaw got only four years?"

"Well, he was led into it by the others for one thing," Marlin explained. "Then there is no doubt that he had the cleverest counsel."

"That may have been it," Mr. Laxworthy assented amiably. "By the bye, Proudson will, of course, be under police supervision for some time?"

"Certainly."

"And Wardley?"

Marlin shook his head.

"He's clear, long enough ago. I believe he's doing very well in some sort of business. I don't even know his address without referring."

"Ah. well!" Mr. Laxworthy said, preparing to depart. "I always enjoy a chat with you, Mr. Marlin. I happened to see Wardley at luncheon time and I suppose that was what brought the affair back into my mind. I remember I sat all through the trial. Very interesting case it was, too. Of course, I understand why Proudson got twelve years. He was the one who used the revolver, wasn't he? But I can't quite understand the difference between the two other sentences."

Mr. Laxworthy returned to his hotel. He dined frugally and alone. Toward the end of the meal a cablegram was brought to him. It was signed Gideon and dated New York:


THORNDYKE'S LIFE HERE ENTIRELY RESPECTABLE. ENJOYED CONSIDERABLE INCOME FROM SALE OF PATENT CALF LEATHER, FOR WHICH HE HELD AGENCY. BELIEVE HE WAS IN TROUBLE IN ENGLAND UNDER NAME OF COLSHAW.

Mr. Laxworthy studied this message for some minuted with an air of satisfaction. Then, having concluded his meal, he sent for his coat and hat and umbrella, and, taking a taxicab out to the further part of Maida Vale, discovered with some difficulty a newly-built block of flats in a back street. He consulted a board for some moments and then rang for the elevator.

"I wish to go to Miss Garesworthy's flat," he told the attendant

The man stared at Mr. Laxworthy curiously as he opened the gate. He himself was a singularly unprepossessing looking object.

"It's on the top floor, sir," he remarked, "Step in, please."

Mr. Laxworthy nodded, and, affecting to arrange his tie in the small looking-glass of the car, kept his eyes fixed upon the attendant. There was some delay in starting. When they had gone up seven stories they came to a standstill. The man opened the gate.

"The lift don't go any further, sir," he explained. "I'll show you the way up to Miss Garesworthy's rooms."

Mr. Laxworthy followed his guide up two flights of stone steps. There was about the whole place a sense of emptiness, and, as regards this top portion, a sense of complete detachment. Since he had entered the building Mr. Laxworthy had neither seen nor heard any sign of a human being.

"Are any of these flats in the lower of part of the building occupied?" he asked the porter.

"One or two. sir," the man replied. "These are Miss Garesworthy's rooms."

Mr. Laxworthy handed him a shilling.

"Thank you very much," he said. "I will ring the bell. You need not wait."

The man, however, did not move. He was a thick, burly-looking person with the physique of a prize-fighter and small, narrow eyes.

"I said:that you need not wait," Mr. Laxworthy repeated sharply.

"I am waiting to see if Miss Garesworthy is in," the man answered surlily.

The door in front of them was suddenly opened. It was Paula Garesworthy who stood there. She looked at her visitor with an expression of amazement, which gradually changed into one of horror.

"Mr. Laxworthy!" she gasped.

"Madam!" he replied, raising his hat.

He stepped quickly across the threshold. Her hands were outstretched as though to push him away."

"I warned you not to come!" she cried quickly. "This adventure is not for you. What is happening is justice and justice only. Go down quickly. I will make some excuse."

"I am not altogether sure," Mr. Laxworthy answered, "whether that very amiable person behind would allow me to go even if I felt disposed. As a matter of fact, however, nothing would induce me to leave this place until my mission is accomplished."

There was the sound of a man's voice heard through the open door. Paula Garesworthy gave a little gesture of despair.

"It is too late!" she exclaimed.

Richard Wardley suddenly appeared, standing upon the threshold of one of the inner rooms. He looked across at Mr. Laxworthy with a curious expression.

"Close the door, Paula," he ordered.

She obeyed him. He moved between it and Mr. Laxworthy.

"Perhaps you will be good enough to tell us," he asked quietly, "what you want here?"

Mr. Laxworthy drew off his gloves and calmly deposited them in his hat.

"I wish," he said, "to have a word or two with Mr. Colshaw. His daughter is getting anxious as to his absence."

Paula looked at him and turned away in despair. Richard Wardley smiled. He was a fat, unhealthy-looking man, and there was something exceedingly unpleasant about his smile.

"You know that he is here, then?" he asked.

"I am quite convinced of it," Mr. Laxworthy replied cheerfully.

"Have you shared your suspicion with any one?"

"Not a soul. I am naturally, I am afraid, of a somewhat secretive nature."

"You shall have your wish." Richard Wardley announced. "Come this way."

They all three passed into a little sitting room, prettily and even daintily furnished Paula threw herself into an easy chair and covered her face with her hands. Richard Wardley opened a door beyond.

"This way," he directed.

Mr. Laxworthy followed him into a bedroom, plainly-furnished, with only an iron bedstead and a few chairs. Standing against the foot of the latter with folded arms was a tall, emaciated man, with hollow cheeks, dead looking eyes and grizzled gray hair. A few yards away Greenlaw was leaning against the wall with a revolver in his hand, as though on guard. Between the two was a horrible sight.

A third man was seated in a chair, to which he was bound with cords. There was a gag in his mouth and his hands were tied together with a rope which seemed to cut into the flesh. His cheeks were deathly pale, his head drooped a little, as though he were unconscious. His eyes, however, were wide open and they told something of the story of the last four days' horror.

"Mr. Laxworthy!" Greenlaw exclaimed with an oath.

Richard Wardley closed the door and stood with his back to it.

"My friends," he said, "we have here an example of the folly of meddling in other people's affairs. Mr. Laxworthy has on the solicitation of our friend Colshaw's daughter undertaken to find him. Mr. Laxworthy has succeeded. The interesting question now remains— what are we to do with Mr. Laxworthy?"

Greenlaw's face was dark with anger.

"You fool!" he cried to this most unwelcome visitor. "I told Paula to warn you. This is no affair of yours."

"Unfortunately," Mr. Laxworthy replied. "I was compelled to make it mine."

There was a dead silence for several moments. The eyes of the man who was bound in the chair were fastened upon his would-be deliverer.

Greenlaw shrugged his shoulders.

"Mr. Laxworthy," he said, "you know who we all are. You know very well that having discovered us like this we cannot possibly let you go hack. You may think perhaps that a block of flats in a populous neighborhood is a fairly safe place for any one, especially if he happens to have left a note of his destination behind him."

He looked inquiringly at Mr. Laxworthy, who only shook his head.

"Not a soul," the latter declared cheerfully, "Is in my confidence."

Greenlaw looked disappointed.

"You may even," he suggested, "have your friend Mr. Marlin in the vicinity."

His left eyelid twitched very slightly, but Mr. Laxworthy refused to take the hint.

"I am entirely upon my own account," he assured them.

Greenlaw frowned. He had somehow or other conceived a liking for this queer-looking person.

"You are a brave man, Mr. Laxworthy," he said irritably, "but you are also a fool. I would have been glad to give you a chance of escape if it were possible.

"These quarters, let me tell you, have [not been constructed without some] special features, I can assure you. There are four different ways by which you can be made to disappear from this room, or at any rate from this suite of apartments, into an undiscoverable eternity."

Mr. Laxworthy shook his head.

Thank you," he said, "I am not proposing to undertake any voyage of discovery of that sort. My mission here is a peaceful one. Contrary to my custom, I have even come unarmed. I see that my friend Mr. Wardley is making strategic movements toward me. I can assure you that it is unnecessary."

He lifted his bands a little way above his head. Nevertheless the two men closed slowly in upon him. The gaunt man at the foot of the bed broke the silence. His voice sounded strangely— be had spoken little during the last twelve years.

"It is an act of justice, this," he declared, pointing toward the man in the chair.

"Not at all," Mr. Laxworthy said sharply. "It is an act of injustice."

They all three looked at him steadily. Mr. Laxworthy loosened his coat and removed his muffler.

"You will forgive me," he continued apologetically, "but I find the atmosphere of this room a little warm, and I am subject to chills.

"To continue. It is because I believe that you—two of you at any rate—are fair men and because I believe that you have some sense of justice that I have come here unarmed, without taking any precautions and without communicating certain ideas or mine to Mr. Marlin or his friends.

"That man," he went on, pointing toward the wretched figure in the chair, "is being tortured by you because you believe that it was he who gave the police valuable information when you were all tried together—except my clever friend Greenlaw here—for the London and South Westminster Bank robbery. You also believe that he has either helped himself to the plunder or knows where it is.

"You are perpetrating, therefore, what you consider to be an act of justice. As a matter of fact it happens to be an act of brutal and flagrant injustice."

The gaunt man at the foot of the bed leaned a little forward. Instinctively, Wardley shrank back. Across his face there flashed some gleam of the horror to come.

"What do you mean?" Proudson demanded hoarsely.

"I mean that the informer was Richard Wardley," Mr. Laxworthy replied. "Colshaw never even received a lawyer in his cell. He never even knew what became of the gold."

Mr. Laxworthy's finger leaped out, pointing unfalteringly at the man whom he denounced. It was a splendid effort and it succeeded. Wardley's nerve failed him. He made one dash for the door. Greenlaw struck him with the butt of his revolver as he passed and knocked him half senseless.

"I got seven years!" he shrieked. "Why did Colshaw get four, then, and I seven?"

"It was at your own request," Mr. Laxworthy declared, "that you we not given too light a sentence, because you were terrified of the afterward. The afterward has come!"

Proudson was breathing heavily.

"But why," he muttered, pointing to the figure in the chair, "why didn't he tell us?"

"He never knew," Mr. Laxworthy replied. "He never knew that Wardley was the informer. He never had any idea where the money was. He has made his own living in New York. Better undo him, I think."

Greenlaw stood guard over Wardley while Proudson removed the gag from the mouth of the man in the chair and loosened his bonds. He was in a state of collapse. Mr. Laxworthy held a brandy flask to his lips.

"Come, be a man," he said, "and I'll take you back to your daughter."

I'm all right," Colshaw declared, struggling to his feet. They wouldn't believe me, though—they wouldn't believe me!" he sobbed. "I've been straight all the time. I knew nothing about the money. I never had a penny of it. I made a business and a living in New York. I came back directly I heard that Proudson wanted to see me."

They both shook him by the hand.

"I am sorry," Proudson murmured in a broken voice.

"And I," Greenlaw echoed. "Thank God you took this on, Mr. Laxworthy! Take him away, sir. I'll pass you by our 'trusty' outside."

Mr. Laxworthy nodded and they moved toward the door. Wardley tried to steal to his feet, but Proudson, with a snarl, was upon him.

"We won't ask you how you found these things out, Mr. Laxworthy," he said "It isn't our business."

"I was at the trial from the beginning to the end," Mr. Laxworthy told them. "I didn't need to look at you three for ten minutes to know who the informer was. All the same," added with a slight smile, "if you'd asked me for proofs, I hadn't any. I simply knew."

"The whole thing's a lie!" Wardley cried, struggling to his feet. It's an invention—a pack of lies!"

Mr. Laxworthy smiled.

"Ten minutes ago," he remarked, "that might have saved you."

Paula sprang from the couch as they passed through the sitting-room. Her eyes were red with tears. She looked at the two men in amazement.

"They have let him go!" she shrieked.

"An affair of a substitute," Laxworthy explained with a little wave of the hand. "Come and lunch with me some day and I'll tell you all about it."

* * * * *

Mr. Laxworthy found the young woman of whom he was in search sitting with Sydney in one of the public rooms. She sprang to her feet when she saw him coming. Mr. Laxworthy's [mood] seemed as quiet and self-contained as usual, but the girl was inspired.

"You have found him!" she [cried].

Mr. Laxworthy handed her the key of her room.

"You will find him up there," he said. "You'd better order a little [drink] for him. He's all right, but he will need looking after for a short time—"

She was gone before he could finish his sentence. Sydney looked at him admiringly.

"Mr. Laxworthy," he declared, "I've got to thank you too. I don't know whether he's a thief or whatever in world he is. You've found my future father-in-law."

Mr. Laxworthy nodded approvingly.

"Miss Thorndyke is a really attractive young lady," he said. "I dined early, and I have been [up long]. We will take a light supper in the [grill] room."</story>