<story title="THE TAX COLLECTOR" date="1927">
"Gentlemen," the fat, florid personage, who had entered almost on the heels of the commissionaire announcing him, exclaimed,

"my name is John Cope—John Bodham Cope, M.P. You may have heard of me. I have come to see whether you can rid me of the most pestilential, idiotic, criminal persecution that ever man had to endure."

"Won't you take a seat?" Mr. Jennerton invited, half rising from behind his writing table.

The newcomer advanced to the client's chair and subsided into its comfortable depths. He laid a glossy silk hat, a gold-topped Malacca cane, and a pair of new gloves by his side, hitched up his grey shepherd's plaid trousers, and glared at the two men whom he had come to consult.

"My son," Mr. Jennerton observed, with a little wave of the hand towards his neighbour, seated at a smaller desk. Mr. Bodham Cope grunted; Gerald nodded pleasantly.

"We know you by name, of course, sir," the latter remarked.

"You are the Member for Bedlington, aren't you, and on the board of a good many industrial companies?"

"I am a public man, sir," Mr. Bodham Cope acknowledged—

"a well-known public man. There is nothing in my life of which I am ashamed, nothing I have done which justifies this villainous, atrocious persecution to which I am all the time subjected."

"Perhaps," Mr. Jennerton, Senior, suggested, "you had better tell us about it. That is, if you wish for our aid."

"It's so difficult!" the other muttered, his thick lips turning outwards. "Look here, young fellow," he went on, addressing Gerald, "just open the door, will you? . . . That's right. Is there any one hanging around?"

"There is a gentleman waiting," Gerald announced.

"Fetch him in," Mr. Cope growled. "It's the first invitation I've ever given him, but he'll come fast enough."

"Mr. Bodham Cope asks if you will step in," Gerald repeated to the person who was seated on a divan in the passage. The latter promptly rose to his feet, with a politely murmured acknowledgment, and followed Gerald into the room. He was apparently of youthful middle age, dressed in the nowadays somewhat unusual morning coat and shepherd's plaid trousers; he wore a white flower in his buttonhole and he carried a silk hat and a Malacca cane in his hand. His smoothly brushed hair was of flaxen hue, his complexion was sandy, his eyes almost china blue. He was clean-shaven, his mouth was large, his manner deferential to the point of timidity. He bowed to Mr. Jennerton, Senior, accepted the chair to which Gerald pointed, and beamed upon Mr. Bodham Cope.

"There he sits," the latter exploded. "If I could wring his neck, or send him to prison for twenty years, I'd do it to-morrow. Look at him, gentlemen. Does anything strike you about him?"

"He appears," Gerald suggested diffidently, "to have imitated your style of clothes."

"He imitates me and he shadows me every moment of my days, every evening of my life," was the impassioned declaration. "Even in the House, he's there, in the Strangers' Gallery, smiling down at me. If I lunch or dine at a restaurant, he's there. He even worms his way into some of the parties to which I am invited. The only places I am safe from him are in my own house and in my club. Blast you!" Mr. Bodham Cope wound up, glaring across the room.

Mr. Jennerton frowned in perplexity. He looked from one to the other of the two men—the city magnate, his rather coarse features disfigured by an angry scowl, and his small, flaxen-haired miniature upon whose lips there still lingered a pleasant smile.

"Are you suggesting, Mr. Cope," he asked, "that this—er— gentleman—er "

"Mr. Winton Pope is my name," the person referred to assisted graciously.

"That this gentleman, Mr. Winton Pope, is purposely a source of annoyance to you?"

"Confound it all, he's the curse of my life!" was the angry retort. "He follows me wherever I go, copies my style of dress, calls himself Winton Pope, simply because my name is Bodham Cope, always pretends to be amiable and friendly, and all the time he's up to dirty little tricks to bring discredit upon me. When I ask him what his game is, he won't answer. He talks some balderdash about liking to be near me."

Mr. Jennerton looked across at the object of this tirade. "You hear what this gentleman says?" he remarked. "Is it true that you follow him about?"

Mr. Winton Pope smiled. "I like to be where he is," he admitted, and curiously enough, although his voice was gentle, almost ingratiating, it held a faint reflex of Mr. Bodham Cope's more guttural enunciation.

"Why?" Gerald enquired.

"I like Mr. Bodham Cope," his bete noire confided timidly. "I admire him very much. I have nothing particular to do in life. It gives me great pleasure to be where Mr. Bodham Cope is. I like the way he speaks at public meetings and gives his orders at restaurants. I like to watch him. It gives me pleasure. I am always happy when I am near people of whom I am fond."

"Blast you!" his victim scowled.

Mr. Jennerton avoided meeting his son's eye. His voice when he spoke was a little husky.

"Of course, Mr. Pope," he acknowledged, after a moment's pause, "this is a free country and you are at liberty, I suppose, to do as you like, provided you don't make a legal nuisance of yourself, but so long as you understand that your continual presence is an offence to—er—to this gentleman, don't you think it would be better if you attached yourself to some one else?"

The flaxen-haired man shook his head. "I couldn't do that," he said. "There is no one else for whom I have the same affection as for Mr. Bodham Cope. He is a wonderful man, I assure you. The more I see of him the more I realise this. I wish he liked me better," the little man went on regretfully; "that, however, will come in time. Sincere affection, I always think, must sooner or later beget something of the same sort. Don't you think so, sir?" he added, gazing at Gerald, with his blue eyes wide open and a wistful note in his tone.

"I—I suppose so," the latter faltered, disappearing for a moment behind a newspaper which he had picked up.

"This is all tommyrot," Mr. Bodham Cope declared angrily.

"This is the sort of tosh he talks when I get any one to tackle him, and ask what he's up to. I've been to a lawyer, but he couldn't do a thing. I've even tried the police, but they can't help. Now I have come here. You tackle him, gentlemen. What's he want, confound it? Of course it's money; it must be money. Let him name the sum."

"Money!" Mr. Winton Pope exclaimed in a shocked tone.

"Well, what else do you want?"

"Money is a wonderful thing," Mr. Winton Pope sighed. "I am, alas, not so well off as I once was, but to talk about money is very embarrassing for a sensitive man."

"How much do you want to fade away?" his furious victim insisted. "You needn't tell me—tell Mr. Jennerton here." The china-blue eyes seemed wider open than ever. "My dear sir," their owner expostulated, "if I were to do such a terrible thing, I should feel just like—oh, how I hate the word!—a blackmailer."

"What else are you?" Mr. Bodham Cope thundered. "It's a new way of playing the game, that's what it is. You gentlemen here, Mr. Jennerton and Mr. Jennerton, Junior, you've heard all this baby talk of his. Listen to this. In three months' time he's done me more harm than any enemy I've ever had. He's a sort of press agent for me, only he's on the wrong side of the fence all the time, trying to rake up things that all sensible people have forgotten long ago. He's always trying to worm his way in among my friends, purring about my goodness and generosity, until they believe him—they believe he's a pal. I get asked to meet him. He gets invited to public dinners where I'm a guest, blast him!"

"You say you've been to a lawyer?" Mr. Jennerton reflected.

"I've been to two," was the curt reply. "They can't do anything. With all that Billiken's face of his, he's as cunning as they make 'em. What I say is, you two gentlemen are in the trade. Get down to hard tacks. Get him to say what he'll take to hop it. I'll give him a thousand pounds—there! You know my address? Whitehall Court, or the House. Talk to him for a few minutes and let me hear from you."

Mr. Bodham Cope rose to his feet, picked up the silk hat, cane and gloves, and prepared to take his leave. His tormentor followed his example in precisely the same fashion, holding his hat and gloves in one hand, and with his cane under his arm. Mr. Bodham Cope leaned forward to shake hands with Mr. Jennerton. Mr. Winton Pope, at precisely the same angle, attempted the same exploit.

"Look at him!" the former almost shrieked, suddenly conscious of the other at his elbow. "He's always up to monkey tricks like that. Found out my tailor even and my hatter. Look at his necktie—same pattern as mine. He'll drive me mad." Mr. Jennerton laid his hand upon the smaller man's shoulder.

"Perhaps," he suggested, "you could spare me a few minutes to discuss this matter."

Mr. Winton Pope glanced at his watch. "Let me see," he murmured, "our bazaar does not open until three o'clock, does it? Yes, I can spare five minutes. Don't be afraid, my dear friend," he added, turning around. "I shall be there to support you." Mr. Bodham Cope's stock of expletives seemed to have become exhausted. He quivered for a moment with rage. "If I come across you at the bazaar," he shouted, "I'll have you kicked out of the place."

He strode from the room, banging the door behind him. Mr. Jennerton waved his remaining visitor back to his chair and looked at him thoughtfully.

"Not at all a bad idea," he observed. "Original, too." Mr. Winton Pope made no comment. "Can we talk business or can't we?" Mr. Jennerton continued briskly. "A bit of a spoof is all right, but my son and I are busy men. You understand?"

"Perfectly," the other murmured. "You must forgive me if for a moment I am a little confused in my thoughts. I am very fond of Mr. Bodham Cope—very fond of him indeed—but I must confess that during these last few minutes, he has hurt me. It was not only," he continued, "some slight expressions of ingratitude which escaped him, but it was also that sordid, that terribly sordid mention of such a sum as a thousand pounds."

"Not enough, eh?" his vis-a-vis queried.

"What can one do these days with a thousand pounds?" Mr. Winton Pope asked sadly. "The mention of that paltry sum of money, Mr. Jennerton, hurt me. I am sensitive about such matters. It is only a fortnight ago that he was speaking of a hundred, and later on of five hundred pounds."

"You wouldn't care to name the sum yourself, I suppose?" Mr. Jennerton suggested bluntly.

The flaxen-haired little man glanced at his watch and rose to his feet. "I must not neglect my duties—the duties I owe to friendship," he said, preparing to depart. "Mr. Bodham Cope is opening a bazaar this afternoon at the King's Hall. I must be there. You will excuse me, gentlemen?"

Mr. Jennerton nodded carelessly. "Look in any time you're passing," he invited. "Whenever you're ready, we are."

"It is very good of you to adopt this attitude," the other acknowledged? "very good of you indeed. Good afternoon, gentlemen."

Mr. Winton Pope took his leave, with a pleasant, confidential nod. Mr. Jennerton, Senior, watched him with admiration.

"A new lay, Gerald," he observed. "Clever too."

Gerald was busy brushing his hat. "I'm off to the bazaar, Dad," he announced. "That fellow's got me intrigued. I'm certain that flaxen hair's a wig, and I'm sure I've seen him before."

The Duchess of Blankshire was just coming to the end of her introductory remarks when Gerald squeezed his way into the crowded hall. She was a portly lady, pleasant-looking and fluent.

"I have now told you the history of my scheme for providing homes for gentle people in need," she concluded, "and I shall call upon our generous benefactor, Mr. Bodham Cope, to declare the bazaar open."

The Duchess sat down amidst much applause. Mr. Bodham Cope stood up in his place. It was noticeable that he glanced for a moment nervously around the hall before beginning his speech. Reassured, apparently, by what he saw, or rather what he failed to see, he began, with the obvious intention of getting his few words over as quickly as possible. He said sugary things about the Duchess, he spoke noble words as to the duties of the wealthy, he enlarged for a moment upon the joys of giving.

He was followed by the treasurer, a thin, lanky young man, who read out all donations of over five pounds. Suddenly, a modest little figure, after a word and a bow to the Duchess, stepped to the front. He seemed for the moment almost like a diminutive replica of the man who had shrunk back in his chair by the side of the Duchess and was gazing at the newcomer with ill- concealed aversion.

"Your Grace, ladies and gentlemen," the latter began modestly, but in a clear, appealing voice. "I have listened to the eloquent address of her Grace and to the few manly words of my friend, Mr. Bodham Cope"—this with a little bow to his scowling neighbour—"and I am going to ask permission to add my name to the list just read out by your treasurer. I shall presently beg to be allowed to contribute a hundred guineas to the fund."

There was loud clapping, led by the Duchess.

"I am reminded," the speaker went on, "of a little incident in the career of our dear friend here, which I am convinced has induced him to become your patron this afternoon. Not so very many years ago—at the time when he built that princely mansion in Surrey—it was necessary to construct a new road, connecting the estate offices with the village. There were a dozen old cottages, curiously enough inhabited by formerly well-to-do people, to be demolished.

"I remember at the time my friend Bodham Cope suffered at the thought of depriving these poor people of their domiciles. It had to be. So, in due course, the cottages were pulled down and the road built. There were a few unfortunate incidents, I recollect, in connection with the ejections. An elderly lady failed to recover from the shock of spending a portion of the night out of doors, and a sickly girl died from exposure.

"These are not matters to dwell upon. I mention the circumstance because I feel quite sure that it was at the back of my dear friend's mind when he associated himself with this present benevolent enterprise. Let me add my good wishes for the success of the bazaar to those of my friend here, and the rest of you."

The little man bowed to the Duchess, beamed upon Mr. Bodham Cope, and stepped to the rear of the platform. There was a murmur of qualified applause. The Duchess hastily declared the proceedings closed and then turned, with a frown upon her forehead, to speak to Mr. Bodham Cope. Gerald lingered for a few moments, making a desultory purchase or two at the stalls. Just before his departure he came face to face with the treasurer who was wandering about, his list still in his hand.

"What's the matter with you, Trenton?" some one asked him.

"I've been looking everywhere," he confided, "for the gentleman with the fair hair who offered us a hundred guineas. I can't find him, nor can I find any one who knows his name." Gerald turned away, with a suppressed smile.

Mr. Bodham Cope renewed his visit to Messrs. Jennerton and Company, Limited, one afternoon later in the week. He seemed larger, more florid and vehement than ever. He was wearing a well-cut blue serge suit, a navy blue tie, and bowler hat, and a red carnation in his buttonhole.

"Look here, Mr. Jennerton," he said, "I gather you didn't get on with that scoundrel I left here the other afternoon."

"We didn't'arrive at anything definite," Mr. Jennerton admitted. "I came to one very obvious conclusion, however, Mr. Cope, and that is that you are being subjected to a new and most ingenious form of blackmail."

"Don't I know that!" his visitor groaned.

"Furthermore, I am almost afraid that if you wish to lead your life in comfort you will have to pay."

"I have offered him a thousand pounds."

Mr. Jennerton shook his head. "If you settle at all," he said,

"you will have to make up your mind that it will cost you a great deal more than that. On the other hand, if you can stick it out, he may get tired of it. His funds may not allow him to carry on. You may say to yourself that he has already made use of any little weak spots in your career, that he can do you no further injury. If so, suck it out by all means."

"A man in my position," Mr. Cope pronounced gloomily, "who has had to work his way up, is compelled to be a little ruthless at times. Success means enemies here and there, and I suppose I've got my share of them. It's the irritation of the thing that gets me. Your son has told you about the bazaar, I suppose."

"How much would you feel disposed to pay to get rid of him once and for all?" Mr. Jennerton, Senior, demanded.

"I'd sooner get him locked up than anything," the other growled.

"So far," Mr. Jennerton pointed out, "he has kept well -within the law and, from what I have seen of him, I think he always will."

"I'd give five thousand pounds if it was an absolute certainty that I got rid of him once and for all," Mr. Bodham Cope decided. There was a knock at the door. In response to an invitation to enter, Mr. Winton Pope made his tentative appearance.

"I am not intruding, I hope," he said. "I saw my friend's car outside, and I thought I, too, might venture to pay a visit." He closed the door behind him and came amiably forward. He was wearing a blue serge suit, he had a red carnation in his buttonhole, and he carried a bowler hat in his hand.

"If you are here to talk business " Mr. Bodham Cope began surlily.

"Not with you, my dear sir," the other interrupted. "Business between friends is always a mistake. An intermediary is better. I can spare Mr. Jennerton a few minutes, if he has anything to say."

Mr. Bodham Cope picked up his hat and stick.

"We shall meet again presently, my dear friend. In the meantime, au revoir," said Mr. Winton Pope.

Mr. Bodham Cope did not trust himself to words. He slammed the door instead. Mr. Winton Pope shrugged his shoulders.

"Well, well!" he murmured. "A short-tempered person, my dear friend, I'm afraid."

"Let me give you a word of advice," Mr. Jennerton begged.

"You're on the right side of the law just now, you know, but you might very easily find yourself in Queer Street. Why don't you talk business while you have the chance?"

"I like to do things my own way," was the soft response. "I abhor crudity in every form. Pardon me if I seem a little absentminded this afternoon. I was reminded coming along here, by a wine merchant's advertisement, of one of the dreams of my later days."

"Get on with it," Mr. Jennerton invited.

"In the third year of the War," the little man with the flaxen hair reflected, "I was wounded, and in a nursing home at Nice. During my convalescence I explored the neighbourhood thoroughly. I found some amazingly attractive spots there, where a man might settle down to end his days. There was a small farm near Vence, for instance—vineyards and an acre or so of orange grove—a prohibitive price, though, for me, alas!"

"What was the price?" Mr. Jennerton enquired.

"About seven thousand pounds—a little more than a month's income of a man, say, in the position of our friend Mr. Cope. Not very much. I wrote to the lawyers about it only the other day. You can see their reply. The property is still for sale." He handed the letter across to Mr. Jennerton, who glanced it through. "If it had been five thousand," the latter began. His visitor shook his head. "These details as to money," he confided, "do not appeal to me. My dream has always been that some rich philanthropist, say like my friend Mr. Cope, reading my War record and knowing of my present circumstances, might buy perhaps an estate like this, without saying a word to me, and press the deeds into my hands. True philanthropy I should call that, Mr. Jennerton."

"Have you ever tried this little game on before?" the latter asked.

"I do not quite understand you, my dear sir," said Mr. Pope.

"This is not a little game on my part. I am talking to you very seriously indeed."

Gerald leaned towards his father. "Let him run the show his own way, Dad," he murmured. "It may come out easier in the end. Supposing, by any chance, Mr. Pope," he went on, turning towards their visitor, "one of our rich friends, say Mr. Cope, for example, decided to purchase this little estate and present it to somebody worthy of such a gift—yourself, for instance—do we understand that you would take up your residence there and remain out of England?"

"I should be content," Mr. Winton Pope assured them both solemnly, "never to set foot in this country again. Up to the time of the Armistice I was a patriotic Englishman. Since that day I have had the feeling that I would just as soon have been born a Siamese."

"Do you know anything about wine growing?" Mr. Jennerton, Senior, enquired.

"I was out in South Africa, growing wine, when the war started, and doing very well."

"Did we ever meet anywhere in France?" Gerald asked curiously. "There are times when your voice sounds very familiar to me."

Mr. Winton Pope seemed afflicted by a sudden deafness. He rose deliberately.

"I am forgetting," he acknowledged self-reproachfully, "that this is a business office. I am wasting your time in idle gossip. I wish you good afternoon, gentlemen. Ah, by the bye, Mr. Jennerton, do you ever dine at a restaurant—you and your son?"

"Occasionally."

"The Milan is a very amusing place," Mr. Winton Pope observed, as he turned towards the door. "You might do worse than pay a visit there now and then. To-night, for instance. Good afternoon, gentlemen."

It was a crowded and brilliant night at the Milan. Mr. Jennerton and Gerald watched the incoming crowds with interest. Only two tables in their vicinity remained unoccupied; one profusely decorated with flowers, laid with six covers; the other, almost adjoining, for two.

Through the crowded lounge and into the restaurant came Mr. Bodham Cope. He was met at the entrance by a bowing maitre d'hotel. He made his way to the table laid for six and distributed cards at each place.

He returned to the vestibule and presently reappeared. By his side, looking a little bored, was a very handsome woman whom Gerald recognized as Lady Eileen Maynard, the daughter of an Irish peer. They were followed by two others, whom Gerald also recognized, the widow of a general who was much in evidence at restaurant parties, and a young stockbroker, almost a professional diner-out. Colonel Maynard brought up the rear, with a lady of unassuming appearance, who both father and son decided was probably Mrs. Bodham Cope.

Mr. Bodham Cope seated his guests with pompous solicitude. His wife was the only one to whom he did not make some urbane little speech as he pointed out his or her seat. She, at last, sank wearily into the one vacant place. At the head of the table, Mr. Bodham Cope looked around at his party with satisfaction. Vodka was served with the caviar. Mr. Cope finished his at a draught, and bent over to whisper to the lady on his right. Then suddenly he seemed to shrink in his place.

Gerald, who had been watching him, glanced towards the door. The vacant table only a few yards away was in the act of being occupied by Mr. Winton Pope and a young lady. The lady was of sufficiently pleasing appearance, but her style of dress was perhaps a trifle ahead of even the indulgent fashions of the day, and her use of cosmetics was lavish. At the moment of Mr. Bodham Cope's collapse she glanced towards his table.

"Hello, Copie!" she cried out cheerfully. "How are you, old bean?"

"My dear Cope!" Mr. Winton Pope exclaimed, beaming upon him. "Fancy finding ourselves at the next table! Bon appititl" he added, raising his cocktail glass.

Mr. Cope rose shivering in his chair. He attempted a formal bow to the young lady; at his tormentor he only scowled. The lady on his right looked hurriedly away.

Mr. Bodham Cope's nervous fingers were playing havoc with his roll. For the moment he dared not trust himself to speak. His evening of triumph and pleasure—for Mr. Bodham Cope was a snob—was ruined. His wife leaned across the table.

"Isn't that the young person who was a typist in your office, John," she enquired—"the one who always used to be bringing the letters to the house after hours?"

Mr. Bodham Cope glared at her. It was a relief to be able to be rude to some one.

"You're the sort of woman who would remember that," he told her gruffly. . . .

"I think," Gerald murmured, "that Mr. Winton Pope will get his estate at Vence."

After dinner the Jennertons lingered in the lounge to smoke and watch the dancing. Mr. Cope came over and spoke to them.

"Mr. Jenncrton," he said earnestly, "if you don't come to terms with that little devil and stop his persecution, there will be murder done. You saw him to-night?"

"Who was the girl?" Gerald enquired.

"Used to be a typist in my office," Mr. Bodham Cope groaned, looking sheepish. "I—well, I took some notice of her—used to have her up at the house until the missus cut up rough about it. I had to get rid of her at the office—too much talk down in the city. Where he got hold of her I can't imagine.

"Lady Eileen hasn't been the same with me since," the victimised man went on mournfully. "I wouldn't have minded so much with some people. This just happened to be a rather particular party. Did you get any further with him this afternoon?"

"I think seven thousand pounds would do it," Mr. Jennerton confided.

"I'll go it," Mr. Bodham Cope declared eagerly. "If you can arrange that he leaves the country and never comes near me again."

"There will be no difficulty about that," Mr. Jennerton assured him. "As a matter of fact, he's rather anxious to settle down abroad."

"I'll bring you the money to-morrow," the other promised.

"Don't let him back out," he added, turning away to rejoin his party.

Presently Mr. Winton Pope reappeared. He advanced tentatively towards the Jennertons.

"May I sit down for a moment?" he asked.

"Certainly," Gerald assented. "What have you done with your guest?"

"To tell you the truth," he confided, "I arranged with her that our evening's entertainment was to consist of dinner only.

I am not particularly fond of feminine society," he went on, "but when I do indulge in it, I am perhaps a trifle critical. I have not, evidently, the same tastes as my dear friend. He may have found some qualities in this young lady— he evidently did— which attracted him. I found her a little—not to use too ugly a word—ordinary. Still, she served her turn."

"A liqueur?" Gerald suggested.

"With pleasure. Have I, do you think, advanced my cause further this evening?"

"I should say," Gerald confided, "that if seven thousand pounds will do it, you are practically established as a landed proprietor, at Vence."

"He's agreed to give it?"

Gerald nodded. "He's bringing the money round at eleven o'clock to-morrow morning."

A beatific smile parted the little man's lips. "That heavenly sunshine!" he murmured. "The perfume of the orange blossoms in early spring, the coming of the young vines, the sight of those rich bunches of purple grapes! The sun—oh, that gorgeous summer sun! It seems too wonderful!"

Mr. Jennerton knocked the ash from his cigar. "My friend," he said, "you have provided the firm of Jennerton and Company, Limited, with a new experience. In the course of our existence, we have brought to justice, and occasionally compromised with, a good many score of blackmailers. We have never, however, had dealings with one who has conducted his operations to such a successful issue as you have."

"Should you call me a blackmailer?" Mr. Winton Pope asked. "Blackmailing is such an ugly word."

"Conducted on your lines," Gerald observed consolingly, "it has its humorous side."

"I am glad that you appreciate that," was the gratified response.

"I must confess that to me the whole affair presents itself somewhat differently. Mr. Bodham Cope has made, as I happen to know, something like two millions out of the War. I lost every penny I possessed. The more I brooded over this, the more unfair it seemed to me.

"I waited for a grateful country to recompense me for my sacrifice. My grateful country did nothing. Then I remembered an ancient motto: 'God helps those who help themselves.' I took a hand in the game myself, and levied my contribution as a war sufferer upon a war profiteer.

"I shall never think of myself, Mr. Jennerton, when I bask in the sunshine and watch the ripening of my ocanges and the crushing of my grapes, as a blackmailer. A tax collector—that is the term I shall apply to myself in my thoughts. Men like Bodham Cope owe the soldiers who fought for them a little more than they have paid. Don't you agree with me, Captain Gerald Jennerton?" Gerald leaned breathlessly forward. "Good Lord!" he exclaimed. "Don't I—of course I must know you."

"I recommended you for your commission," the other interrupted. "We were decorated on the same day. I remember giving you some advice once, young fellow, when we were in a tight corner. I told you that whatever you were up against, there was always a way out. I was up against trying to live on eighty pounds a year. I found my way out. . . . Shall we say twelve o'clock tomorrow?" he added.

"The money will be there any time after eleven, sir," Gerald replied.

"Capital!" the other exclaimed, beaming his good night. "I will offer you one more unique experience. You must come and lunch with a—er? a tax collector, afterwards."</story>