<story title="WAITING FOR TONKS" date="1927">
Mr. Jennerton, Senior, blotted with loving care a cheque which had just been handed over by a grateful client. He looked at the figures and smiled. Satisfaction radiated from his goodhumoured face, for Mr. Jennerton was one of those rare people who are generous by disposition, and yet exceedingly fond of money. Gerald, his son, had just thrown open the window to admit the soft, April air, already, even in the unpropitious locality of the Strand, buoyant with its promise of coming spring.

"Money easily earned, my lad," Mr. Jennerton observed.

"Too easily," Gerald murmured, wondering for a moment whether the hyacinths were out in a certain little garden on the slopes of Fiesole, whether the mimosa buds were yellowing, and the oranges formed.

"You've had four months of work here now," his father reflected. "What about it?"

Gerald turned away from the window and came back into the room.

"I've liked it, Dad," he confessed, honestly enough. "Of course I miss the other atmosphere, but this one is full of interest. What a hotchpotch of humanity we seem to run across—men and women of all sorts and types—Spanish dukes, murdering parsons, blundering financiers. Sometimes, for a change, I wish that something a little simpler would wander our way."

"We have to take what comes," Mr. Jennerton remarked. "You can't say you've had to be idle."

"No, I can't say that," Gerald admitted.

"And you've got the flair too," his father acknowledged. "You start at the right end. Our business would be a great deal easier," he continued thoughtfully, "if our clients would only tell their stories in a natural and straightforward manner. They never do. They always forget the most important part of things. They tell it to us just from their own point of view. Sometimes they make it more difficult for us than if we had to find out everything for ourselves."

Mr. Brigstock, manager of the firm, came bustling in. His pince-nez were even more precariously placed upon his nose than usual. He had the air of a man overwhelmed with affairs.

"Mr. Jennerton," he announced, "there's a little man downstairs asked to see the manager, said his business wasn't important enough for the principals of the firm, but I can't make head or tail of him, and anyway, we've no department downstairs to deal with what he wants, even if we could find out exactly what it was. Could you just have a chat with him? You've got no appointments until the afternoon, and I've four people waiting now."

"Send him up, Mr. Brigstock," his Chief enjoined cheerfully. "Mr. Gerald and I will find out what he wants."

Mr. Brigstock, portentous, with slow footsteps but diffusing a sense of haste, departed, and a few minutes later a thin, haggardlooking man of rather under medium height and timid presence, neatly dressed in transatlantic fashion, was shown in. He sank into, rather than reclined in the chair which Mr. Jennerton pointed out, and he had the air of a man not only greatly disturbed, but also in a desperate state of nervous unrest.

"Mr. Jennerton," he confided, "I have come on a hopeless errand."

"I wouldn't say that," the principal of the firm expostulated.

"We've helped people out of pretty bad scrapes in our time."

"You can't help me," was the lugubrious reply. "I've dug my own grave, and I'm sinking into it. I asked for what I'm getting, hour by hour and day by day. I'll be thankful when the end comes."

"Better explain," Mr. Jennerton proposed tersely. The visitor passed his hand wearily over his forehead.

"My name is Ben Hammond," he began. "Me and Silas Brocken were partners in some oil territory over in Texas, and we did pretty good. I've known Silas all my life. We were at school together, and though he could be kind of rough when he wanted, we always managed to keep good friends. Likely enough his sister Ruth might have had something to do with that. Anyway, when he comes to me with this scheme, I figured it out that it was about as good a chance of making a pile as might ever come my way, and I joined up willing."

"Oil's rather a speculative proposition," Mr. Jennerton remarked. "What sort of luck did you have?"

"The best," Mr. Ben Hammond declared drearily. "We kept on striking oil, until we got so that we was both of us worth many more dollars than we'd ever dreamed of. Then Silas, he wanted to quit, but I wasn't exactly willing, for it seemed to me the boom was only just coming along. I didn't want to take on his share though, and he didn't want to take on mine, so we drew a line east and west, and Silas he went off to New York to see what was doing. He got in with some of the crowd that knew the territory, and it seems they were anxious enough buyers, for one day I got a cable—'Take your pick, north or south. I'm selling the other.' I wired back—'I choose the south.' Silas cabled— 'O.K. Have sold the north.'"

"Well, that seems all right," Mr. Jennerton observed. "An oldfashioned way of doing business, perhaps, but fair enough." The little man squirmed in his chair.

"That's just what it wasn't," he moaned. "Silas hadn't been gone more'n three days before seven of the wells we thought dried up on the south end began to gush. You don't want a long story, gentlemen, and maybe you don't understand oil. There ain't many as does. In just that time it took Silas to get going in New York, the south end of our property had got to be worth three times as much as the north, and I never let on. When he offered me my choice, I took the south, like a skunk, sold out to a company of millionaire prospectors who came around, hopped it off to San Francisco, and started for Honolulu."

"Sharp practice," Mr. Jennerton criticised, "but still you American gentlemen aren't in business for your health, are you? If you're worrying about it, why don't you own up, and make an arrangement with your partner?"

Mr. Ben Hammond groaned. He produced a sheaf of cablegrams from his pocket.

"He ain't that sort," he declared mournfully. "He's got it up against me real and good, and I tell you, gentlemen, when Silas Brocken is out after any one, there's trouble afoot. I knew what to expect, and I can tell you I've kept going. It ain't no good though. He's followed me around until I'm fairly worn out. Look here at these cablegrams. I get one of them every few days. He's always on my heels. I've been around the world twice. He missed me by one hour in Yokohama. This morning, at my hotel in London, this one was handed to me from Paris—'Flying over today. Shall get you this time. Silas.'"

"Exactly what are you afraid of?" Mr. Jennerton asked. Mr. Ben Hammond looked almost scornful.

"You don't know Silas. He'll drop me sure. Why do you suppose he's followed me for two years except to get his own back? He'll drop me on sight, and I've got about as much chance as a rabbit. I've seen him handle his gun when things were wilder out West, and he's no bungler."

Mr. Jennerton smiled reassuringly.

"That sort of thing doesn't happen over here, Mr. Hammond. If your partner so much as lifts a gun to you in this country it's prison for him pretty quick, and the gallows if he shoots and brings it off. London's a pretty good sanctuary from that sort of person."

"What do you suppose Silas cares about what happens to him afterwards?" Mr. Ben Hammond groaned. "He's not that kind. What he makes up his mind to do, he'll do, and it ain't no fear of the law that's going to stop him. If you'll just look through these telegrams you'll see it's pretty clear what's in his mind. I got a million dollars the best of that deal, and I'd hand the lot over tomorrow if it'd square matters with Silas. I doubt he'd ever listen to me though. Before I could open my lips, I'd get mine."

"Well, what do you want us to do about it?" Mr. Jennerton enquired.

"There ain't much that any one could do," the little man sighed. "I found out many months ago that he travels all the time with a detective, so as to keep on my track. I wondered, though, whether there was any way I could put him off the scent altogether, or any place I could hide where he'd never get at me."

"You can't do that for the rest of your life," Mr. Jennerton pointed out. "You say he has a detective watching you all the time. Well, I would suggest that you followed suit; that you engaged us, if you choose, to watch him. If he's on his way to London now, we should be able to discover him before long. Get back to your hotel and lock yourself in if you want to, and we'll go ahead, find out where he is, interview him, and, if you like to make an offer, see what we can do."

"He won't listen to no offer, won't Silas," his late partner lamented. "He never was one for reason in a quarrel. He sees red quick, and red never changes to any other colour. I got a gun too, but it's no use my pretending I'm as quick on the draw as Silas, because I ain't and never was, and never shall be." Mr. Jennerton became a little impatient.

"My dear Mr. Hammond," he expostulated, "all that talk about guns is out of date here. Unless your partner is an idiot, he'll have realised that by this time, too. If you were to come across each other in the wilds of the Sahara, or in the loneliest parts of Texas, or Mexico, or any of those lawless places, you might have been able to resort to these primitive means. Nowadays no sensible person attempts force in a civilised country, because he simply can't get away with it. Go and do as I suggest. Tell me your partner's name again, and all you can about him, and then lock yourself up in your hotel, if you want to, for a few days, and we'll see what we can do."

"His name is Silas Brocken," the other confided cheerlessly.

""He's a bigger man than me—not so tall he ain't, but he's as strong as a bullock. He didn't use to have no hair on his face in the way of beard or moustache, but it's pretty well two years since I saw him. Fair hair he had then, with a bit of grey, and a nasty scar on the left temple. He got that in a scrap when we were marking out our claims. I don't know who you're sending to tackle him, but he's apt to be pretty fierce, and when he hears my name there'll be some talk."

"I can assure you," Mr. Jennerton promised, "that the emissary we send to interview Mr. Silas Brocken will not carry a gun, and that he won't need one. Now, where are we to communicate with you, and what is your offer?"

"I'm at room 387, the Hotel Cecil," Mr. Ben Hammond announced. "I'm willing to pool up, north and south, and divide fair and square, as we ought to have done at first, and if he wants more than that he can have it and welcome. I'll pay your fee now, if you like, for you'll never do any good with him. It won't be the dollars he's looking for, it's just where to let daylight into me."

"Put up your pocketbook," Mr. Jennerton enjoined. "We only take fees when we do work. If we square things up with this bloodthirsty partner of yours, you can bring it out again."

"If you did that," Mr. Ben Hammond said wistfully, "it would be worth ten thousand to you. Money ain't no use to me nowadays. I've kind of lost my taste for it."

He picked up his hat and umbrella and made his cautious way towards the door. Arrived there, he hesitated.

"Would you mind taking a look along the corridor and down the stairs, young man," he begged Gerald. "Silas is close on my heels now, according to that last telegram, and I'm scared." Gerald escorted his client to the lift and put him in charge of the commissionaire. The last glimpse he had of him, he was trying to make himself as small as possible behind the bulky frame of the lift attendant.

"Like to take this on, Gerald?" his father enquired, when he returned to the office.

"I fancy I would," the young man acquiesced. "The picture of this bloodthirsty prospector from Texas rather appeals to me."

Gerald Jennerton, very bored, had been seated in the lounge of the Hotel Cecil for something like twenty minutes. Suddenly he was aware of the approach of a large, clean-shaven man, with a great deal of cheek and very small eyes, dressed in a light grey suit, narrow brown boots, a shirt of flamboyant fashion and an indescribable tie. The man had been piloted to his presence by a small page boy.

"This is the gentleman as was asking for Mr. Brocken," he announced, and, after a few minutes' lingering, in case a tip was forthcoming, departed.

The large man looked steadily at Gerald, who had risen to his feet.

"Are you Mr. Silas Brocken?" the latter enquired.

"I guess not," was the emphatic response.

"Then may I ask?—" Gerald began.

"I guess there's no harm in your asking anything you want to," the other interrupted. "Let's get down to it."

Getting down to it, so far as the newcomer was concerned, consisted in drawing up a heavily upholstered chair to Gerald's side and sinking ponderously into it. Ensconced in safety, he withdrew from his waistcoat pocket a pale- coloured, evil-looking cigar, bit off the end, and handed its fellow to his neighbour, who civilly but firmly declined the attention.

"Mr. Silas Brocken," the large man announced, "ain't feeling quite O.K. to-day. I'm his companion, so to speak—secretary, if you like it better. Just what might you be wanting with him, eh?"

"I am afraid," Gerald replied, "that my business is of a private nature."

The newcomer struck a match and lit the compound of vegetables which he apparently regarded as a cigar. Gerald moved a few inches farther away.

"My name," he announced, "is Tonks—Syd Tonks. I'm pretty well known in the States, though I haven't seen much of this little burg. One of Pinkerton's men I was for years, until I put on so much flesh that all the crooks got wise to me. Now I'm on my own, and I'm looking after Mr. Brocken, you understand, sir."

"Does he need any looking after?"

"He does and he does not," was the judicial response. "He's a strong, violent man, is Mr. Brocken," the latter's guardian went on, with a side glance at his companion. "He's the right sort to have on your side in a scrap, but I wouldn't trust him when his blood's up. No, sir. His hand's a darned sight too familiar with his hip pocket for this country."

"He might find it expensive," Gerald suggested.

"Sure," the other agreed, "but the hell of it is, he don't seem to care. I've been travelling with Silas pretty well two years now, and my job has been all the time to keep him and the man he's after apart. I've done all I can to make Silas Brocken see reason. I've taken his six-shooter away twice, but he's beat it on me each time and I've had to give it back, or he'd have been off on his own, and the whole business over. I've tried him with dummy cartridges, but that don't go either. He fires one shot out of his gun each morning, wherever he is, just to be sure that it's in good order. He's a hard man to fool, is Silas."

"He sounds like a most unpleasant person," Gerald admitted.

"I suppose you can guess at the nature of my business, Mr. Tonks?"

The latter smoked reflectively for a moment or two. He seemed to attain the best result by screwing the cigar into the extreme corner of his mouth.

"I'd say that you were from Ben Hammond. How's that?"

"Right first time," Gerald acknowledged. "Look here, Mr. Tonks, can't you make your man see reason? We want to get these two together."

"There will be bloodshed if we do," Mr. Tonks said, in a tone of conviction.

"What rubbish!" Gerald declared impatiently. "Mr. Hammond is tired of being chased all over the world. He wants to come to some friendly settlement."

"I guess any guy'd weary some of having a man like Silas Brocken always on his heels, but I don't see what he's going to do about it."

"He wants a friendly settlement," Gerald repeated. "There was some sharp practice in connection with that partnership split-up, and Mr. Hammond's perfectly ready to admit it, and have it put right, according to the ideas of any third person you or Mr. Brocken might nominate. He can't do more than that. You know as well as I do that all this talk of shooting and revenge is out of date. It's up to you to get your man into a reasonable frame of mind and then we'll bring them together."

Mr. Tonks blew out a dense volume of cigar smoke.

"I'm not looking to be a witness on a coroner's inquest," he announced.

"Well, let me see your client," Gerald suggested. "Let me see what I can do with him."

"You keep out of mischief, young fellow," Mr. Tonks advised.

"If your man's anywhere around in this vicinity, you get him away quick. I'll give it to you straight. I want to keep my job, and I want to keep Silas Brocken from the gallows, and the only way I can do it is to keep on Ben Hammond's heels all the time, but to take darned good care that the two men don't meet."

"You're absolutely convinced, then, that Brocken wouldn't listen to any agreement?"

"It's the surest thing on this little planet," Mr. Tonks declared with emphasis. "Dollars don't count with Silas. He's out for the cold stuff. He's got it up against Ben good and hard." Gerald rose thoughtfully to his feet.

"You wouldn't care to help me get a few words with Mr. Brocken personally," he asked, "just to satisfy my client?"

"Not on your life. I'm not opening the gates of any cemetery for strangers. You take it from me, young fellow, there's no person breathing could live in the same room with Silas if they so much as whispered the name of Ben Hammond."

"Very well, Mr. Tonks," Gerald concluded. "I will report our conversation to my client. Before I go, can I offer you a drink?"

Mr. Tonks struggled to his feet with a greater nimbleness than one would have imagined possible from his bulky, ill-disposed frame.

"We'll get together down in the bar for a while," he proposed.

"There's no reason for you and me to fall out, young fellow. Our job is to keep these two guys apart, and as long as we do that, everything will be beautiful."

They made their way to the bar, and it appeared that Mr. Tonks liked his whisky neat with a tumbler of water by his side—which he consistently forgot—to act as a "chaser." There were other kindred spirits lurking about, whom Gerald cunningly inveigled into the little circle. Before long Mr. Tonks was talking as much as he was drinking, and he was drinking a great deal. Gerald slipped away unnoticed.

The waiter on the third floor accepted the treasury note but prophesied difficulty.

"I can let you in all right, sir," he admitted, "but I don't know that the young lady will let you see Mr. Brocken. Kind of queer he seems all the time, especially when the other gentleman's out of the way."

"So there's a young lady there, is there?"

"Mr. Brocken's sister, sir. Her room's across the way. She's in with him now."

"Just open the door," Gerald begged. "Don't announce me." The man led the way into the hall of the suite and knocked at the inner door.

"Who's there?" demanded a startled yet pleasant feminine voice.

"Waiter, madam," the man replied.

He threw open the door and hurried off, clasping the treasury note in his hand. Gerald, with a slight tremor of excitement, crossed the threshold. A woman of apparently about thirty years of age was looking at him with dark, perturbed eyes. In the background a man had half risen to his feet.

"Who are you and what do you want?" the woman asked.

"My name is Jennerton," Gerald explained. "I came to see Mr. Silas Brocken, on a matter of business."

The girl hesitated. Gerald took a step forward. A tired-looking, nervous man rose from the depths of an easy-chair and looked at him doubtfully. He was a sturdily built person with a not unpleasant face.

"I am Silas Brocken," he announced. "What do you want with me?"

Gerald was silent for a moment, a little perplexed. There was nothing the least menacing about Mr. Brocken's appearance, nor was there any sign of projected violence.

"I came to see you on behalf of Mr. Ben Hammond," Gerald announced boldly. "I want to find out whether it wouldn't be possible to fix up this little difficulty between you two."

"On behalf of Ben Hammond!" the girl gasped.

"Old Ben!" her brother faltered.

Gerald nodded. There were no indications of the storm which he had been led to expect.

"It seems there was some little trouble between you and Mr. Hammond over the division of some oil property in Texas," Gerald continued. "Mr. Hammond would like to have matters put straight."

"Put straight," Silas Brocken repeated. "Say, that sounds queer to me. What have I been trapezing around the world for two years for?"

"Who are you?" the girl asked.

"I'm just an acquaintance of Mr. Hammond," Gerald explained? "perhaps a little more than that. My father and I are private enquiry agents, and Mr. Hammond has consulted us to see if we could help him bring about a settlement between the two. He is very anxious indeed to straighten matters out. Personally," Gerald went on, with a glance around the room, which convinced him finally that there was no sign of any stray weapon,

"I think that an interview between you would be the most satisfactory thing, if you would guarantee that it would be of a peaceful character."

"Say, what sort of a scallywag do you think I am?" Silas Brocken demanded. "Why should I want to hurt old Ben?"

"Is Mr. Hammond anywhere near here?" the girl enquired eagerly.

"Within a few yards," Gerald replied. "I'll fetch him, if you like."

"Fetch Ben Hammond!" his late partner exclaimed, rising to his feet. "Well, that sounds good to me!"

"You'll promise that there shall be no quarrel?" Gerald insisted.

"Not on my part," was the hearty response. Gerald, with his fingers upon the handle of the door, felt impelled to ask a question.

"Tell me," he begged, "if you don't want to quarrel with Ben Hammond, why did you keep on sending him those terrifying telegrams?"

"Telegrams?" the girl repeated.

"Telegrams?" her brother echoed in a dazed tone. "I never sent him a telegram in my life. I didn't know where to find him. It was Tonks who was always on the point of locating Ben, but we always seemed to miss him—sometimes by only an hour or so."

"Tonks!" Gerald reflected.

The girl took him by the arm.

"Please go and fetch Mr. Hammond," she insisted, "quickly."

"I will," he promised, "only if Mr. Tonks comes up before I get back, better not say anything about it." Gerald crossed the corridor, knocked at the door of the room almost opposite, which Mr. Hammond was occupying, and whispered a few words in his ear.

"Wants to see me!" the latter cried. "Where? In this hotel?"

"Look here, Mr. Hammond," Gerald assured him, "there's been some mistake. I'm sure of that. Your partner is in a most harmless frame of mind. He, and his sister too, are only too anxious to meet you in a perfectly friendly fashion."

"Ruth!" Mr. Hammond exclaimed. "You don't tell me she's here, man?"

"She's with her brother—only just across the way." Mr. Hammond laid his trembling fingers upon Gerald's arm.

"Ruth won't let him get rough," he declared. "She was always the peacemaker. Ruth! Say, that's wonderful!" They crossed the corridor and entered the suite opposite. Mr. Brocken, who was tramping up and down the sitting room, turned around at the opening of the door. From a distant corner, Ruth came hurrying forward. She held out both her hands which Ben Hammond grasped. There were tears in his eyes. He was suddenly not in the least afraid.

"Ruth!" he murmured. "Why, this is good, Ruth!"

"Ben—you dear!" she whispered. Then she stood aside. Silas Brocken came a few steps forward. He and his partner looked steadily across at each other. The expression on their faces was indescribable.

"Silas!" Ben Hammond faltered in a half-choked tone. "You're not mad with me?"

Silas Brocken looked more dazed than ever.

"Me mad with you, Ben!" he cried. "What've I got to be mad about, except that you wouldn't answer my letters, and made me chase you around these two years?"

Ben Hammond gave one last nervous glance around the room. There were no signs of any six-shooters. There was nothing in the least threatening in his partner's tone or expression, and a notable flatness about his hip pocket. He extended his hand a little timidly, to find it suddenly clasped in the other man's.

"I done a dirty trick on you, Ben," his late associate confessed humbly.

"Getting me scared up, you mean? That's nothing to what I done to you, Silas, but there hasn't been a moment since I haven't been sorry for it. You know what I done—I guess Ruth knows too. When I chose south—those wells had begun to gush."

"They didn't gush long," Brocken confided grimly. "Lucky you sold out when you did, Ben. Them wells was faked."

"What's that you're saying?" Ben Hammond demanded.

"Faked, that's what they was," the other groaned. "Faked by me too, a man as had kept honest all the days he was poor, only to become a blackguard when the dollars rolled in. I wanted you to choose south, Ben, the skunk that I was. I knew where the oil was. I'd found it up north before I went to New York, only I wouldn't have the wells sunk until after we'd closed our deal."

"Jiminy!"

"You got two millions for your south lot," Silas Brocken went on—"and you done well—but I got four and a half for mine. Yours weren't worth the money. You did them prospectors in the eye without knowing it."

The dawn of a beatific grin appeared on Ben Hammond's face.

"Done them in the eye, did I?" he repeated. "Gosh, Silas! One of them was 'Crooked Solly'—him that made ten millions out of poor Widow Grant."

The reflection of the smile softened Silas Brocken's anxious face.

"Didn't I know?" he rejoined. "Gee, it's the only thing that's made me smile for two years! But listen here, Ben, I was a skunk. The deal was no sooner closed, though, than I began to get ashamed of it. Then Ruth caught hold and she gave me hell. That's when we started off after you. But, my God, do you think we could do more than just get on your tracks? I hired one of them detective chaps—used to be at Pinkerton's—and it seems to me as though we'd dragged him around the world two or three times with you just a beat ahead—and never answering a letter."

"I never had a letter from you," Ben Hammond declared. "And Silas, what about them telegrams?"

"I never sent you a telegram since I quit New York," Silas Brocken affirmed.

Gerald, who had been seated astride a chair, listening intently to the whole conversation, ventured to intervene.

"Look here," he said, "I think I can see daylight in this matter. It's Tonks who's been keeping you two apart. He got hold of too good a job to let go. He was pretending to track down Mr. Hammond and all the time he was sending telegrams to frighten him away."

"My, how I always hated that man!" Miss Brocken cried bitterly.

For the first time there was a look in her brother's face reminiscent of those days when he handled six-shooters with the same aptitude as his knife and fork.

"If we ain't a couple of boobs!" he declared. "Gol-darned blithering boobs, that's what we've been. You thought you'd done me in the eye, Ben, because of those ten-day gushers, and that I was mad with you, and all the time I was the blackguard who'd done you in the eye for a cool million and a quarter. There was you trying to keep out of my way because you was scared, and there was I chasing after you, with Ruth here, to make good." They shook hands once more.

"I sure am a gol-darned fool," Ben confessed.

"No worse than me, to have been fooled by a man like Tonks," his partner acknowledged humbly.

"I was scared of Ruth too," Ben Hammond admitted. "I dursen't have looked her in the face."

"You don't need to be scared, Ben," she whispered softly, and somehow or other Ben found one of her hands in his.

"Four and a half millions I got for the north, and two millions you for the south—darned clever cuss you were too!" Silas Brocken summed up. "That's three and a quarter millions each, which means I owe you one and a quarter."

"What's money?" Ben Hammond demanded, as they made a simultaneous movement towards the whisky bottle.

Mr. Silas Brocken paused to ring the bell. He seemed to have grown in stature and in fierceness. One could almost picture him handling one of those six-shooters.

"What are you ringing for, Silas?" his sister enquired.

"I'm ringing for another glass for this gentleman," Mr. Brocken replied, suddenly remembering Gerald and shaking hands with him, "a bottle of champagne for you, my gal, and a messenger boy to look for Mr. Tonks. When we've done our bit of celebration," he concluded, with the light of battle in his eyes,

"I'm going to sit right here and wait—for Mr. Tonks."</story>