<story title="TAWSITTER'S MILLIONS" date="1928">
Jennerton felt that he was in luck when the man whom he had been busily and discreetly shadowing during the last week turned and spoke to him upon the Terrace at Monte Carlo. They had exchanged amenities at the chemin- de-fer table upon the previous evening, but nothing had passed beyond the ordinary civilities of the moment, and Jennerton himself, although the two men were standing side by side, would not have ventured upon speech.

"A very fine sight, that!" his neighbour remarked, lifting his stick, and pointing seaward.

"The Mauretania, I am told," Jennerton replied. "A magnificent vessel! Somehow or other, though, these huge steamers seem a little out of place in a toy paradise like Monte Carlo."

"This one," the other rejoined slowly, his eyes still fixed upon the approaching leviathan, "is very much out of place. The crowds who will presently be hustling each other in the cafes and restaurants here will also be out of place. The man whose special object it is to remove me to another world, if he should be amongst the passengers, will also be entirely out of his element in these surroundings. Will you take your aperitif with me, Mr. Jennerton—It will be a couple of hours, at least, before these passengers are landed."

"You know my name then?"

"As well as you do mine," was the calm reply. "I am Tawsitter? Edward Mountford Tawsitter, of Tawsitter Court, in the county of Cornwall, during my youth. Later of New York. Later of London, Paris, Rome—anywhere. You are Mr. Jennerton, the very clever young amateur detective whom my good friend Courtlaw has been writing me about so assiduously. Now we know each other. You'd better stroll up the steps and I will give you a lift to the Royalty Bar."

"I am sorry that I have been so easily discovered," Jennerton regretted. "Sir Henry was particularly anxious that I should make your acquaintance casually. I gathered that you weren't too keen about my butting in on your affairs."

The other smiled. He was a man of apparently from forty to forty-five years of age, clean-shaven and handsome in a way, but with restless eyes and a harassed expression. He gave one the idea of a person with an uneasy conscience.

"It really doesn't make any difference," he said. "I must admit that when Courtlaw wrote me I refused to have anything to do with you, but, after all, what does it matter? You may not be able to do any good, but you certainly won't do any harm. Step in, please."

A Rolls-Royce was waiting at the exit from the Terrace and they glided smoothly away up the hill.

"I'm sorry you haven't much confidence in me, Mr. Tawsitter," Jennerton meditated. "I have been very interested, however, in what Sir Henry has told me of your present dilemma, and I am not at all sure that I may not be able to be of use to you." Tawsitter sighed. There was a very hopeless expression about his mouth.

"Mr. Jennerton," he confided, "I do not believe that your big four from Scotland Yard, combined with the famous nine of the City of New York Police, and assisted by the Archangel Gabriel wielding thunderbolts, could save me from the man who is on his way to kill me."

Sunshine, in one broad, yellow flood, from which the striped umbrellas seemed pleasant but almost inadequate protection, flowers, and flowering shrubs on the cool circle of greensward, white-coated waiters with well-laden trays of amber and pinkcoloured cocktails, an agreeable chatter of conversation, the merest tinkle of music in the distance. It was one of those early spring mornings when Monte Carlo sheds its sometimes tawdry mantle and seems one of the fairest spots in the world—a paradise for joy, and laughter, and forgetfulness. But Tawsitter, although upon his arrival he was immediately ushered to one of the best tables in a corner of the Bar garden, although his double cocktail foamed invitingly at the top, and many of the little crowd who came and passed hailed him as an intimate, remained nervous and ill at ease. There was a sunken line under his eyes, a faint contraction of the eyebrows, an occasional far-away though intense gaze, as though he searched for a thing which he feared to see. He leaned forward towards his companion.

"I hate the days these steamboats arrive from America," he confessed. "Some time or other, I know that he will descend upon me. He will send no warning. He will just arrive. And that, I suppose, will be the end."

He shuddered, dropped some cigarette ash upon his waistcoat, and brushed it off nervously.

"You have tried by every means you can think of to get in touch with him?"

"Every means? What, in God's name, could I do more?" Tawsitter demanded, almost angrily. "I had a letter waiting for him with each one of his friends in New York. He had letters and telegrams at the prison up to the last day. My agent, with a car, and a pocketbook, was outside the prison gates at dawn when he was supposed to be released. Somehow or other he came out unrecognised and gave every one the slip. He's been free for two months now. No one has seen him and he hasn't visited a single one of his old haunts."

"Does he know where you are?" Jennerton ventured.

Tawsitter shivered. It seemed a curious thing to do, seated in a pool of sunshine, without a tremor of breeze and with his second cocktail half consumed, but without a doubt he shivered. Jennerton studied him curiously. Such fear on the part of a man of Tawskter's type seemed to him a strange thing.

"He'U find out fast enough," was the gloomy response. "I'd have hidden if I'd thought it would have been any good. Mark would have found me in a desert island. You know something of what lies between us, I imagine?"

"I know some part of the story," Jennerton admitted. Tawskter moved uneasily in his chair.

"We're all sinners, more or less, I suppose," he continued.

"When it comes to the other man or you, though, it isn't many of us would play the Sydney Carton. I'll confess I was in it with Mark, but what good would it have done for me to have gone and said so. I ran away to Europe, I admit. And look what I've done. I've made a fortune. Half of it I've put in Mark's name. Isn't that playing the game?"

"It certainly seems so," Jennerton acknowledged. "You've let him know that."

"Of course I have! I have written him scores of letters. He's had them too. I know that, because I've a friend in New York who has a pull."

"Seems queer."

"I'm a sensitive man," Tawsitter went on—"drink up that cocktail and have another—very sensitive indeed. I couldn't even bear to read the account of the trial. I was positively morbid about it. All that I could do to help afterwards, I did. I have a sort of a pull and I arranged to have newspapers, books, and better food sent in to him."

"None of which he would accept, I believe," Jennerton remarked.

Tawsitter mopped his forehead with his handkerchief.

"He refused everything. He sent one message—that was all. 'I will see my partner and thank him for his kindness when I come out!' And he's out! He's free now. From somewhere or other, he's on his way here. He might even be on this steamer." A sudden access of custom gladdened the hearts of Guido and Francis, the two urbane proprietors, and infused new activity into the place. A procession of motor cars and little carriages, each with a number attached, drew up outside and commenced the task of discharging their loads of transatlantic sightseers. Loud and cheerful voices, pitched in an unfamiliar key, proclaimed afresh the beauties of the place. Extra tables were dragged out. Cocktails bearing strange names were freely ordered. A motley collection of pretty girls in light costumes flitted from one to the other of the little parties. Tawsitter sat in his corner and glowered.

"I tried Cairo last month," he told his companion drearily. "It was just the same there. They arrived in special trains, instead of steamers—horrible!"

The cavalcade of vehicles had come to an end. The newcomers were already settling down into their places. Then there crawled, painfully and slowly up the steep hill, one final carriage. It was a shabby and dilapidated affair, drawn by one weary horse. The cocker, who had been obliged to use his whip freely, drew up at last at the entrance with a vain little attempt at a flourish, removed his hat, wiped his forehead, and leaned over expectantly. His fare, who seemed in many respects to match the vehicle, slowly descended. With almost meticulous deliberation, he counted out four five-franc notes, and handed them to the expostulating cocker. Then he made his way deliberately into the midst of the gay scene—a man, who, from the first, seemed curiously out of place amongst such a company, or anywhere where gaiety prevailed. He was elderly. His clothes were shabby. His face was lined and his eyes were tired. Yet he made his patient way along the flagged walk like a man with an object. Jennerton, who had been watching him with the idlest curiosity, was suddenly startled by his companion's groan. Tawsitter, ghastly with fear, drops of sweat upon his forehead, was gazing straight ahead of him, like a man who looks on death.

"It's Mark!" he gasped. "Mark Sloane!"

The light babel of conversation flowed on, undisturbed by that half- stifled, unheard cry of terror. No one took any notice of the insignificant little man who walked with something of the air of a somnambulist towards Jennerton and his companion. Yet, to an observant person, he must have seemed curiously out of place amongst this light-hearted gathering—a man who carried the shadow of tragedy engraven upon his face and purpose framed in the grim lines of his close-drawn lips. He brought with him an incongruous air into the sun-dappled places. Watching his coming, Tawsitter shivered as though he felt the approaching chill of death. Jennerton rose to his feet. He moved his position slightly, so that he covered his companion.

"Did you wish to speak to Mr. Tawsitter?" he asked. The newcomer looked at him as though his voice were the only part of him which really existed.

"Is that any concern of yours?" he demanded. "Mr. Tawsitter and I are old—friends."

"The fact is," Jennerton confided, "that Mr. Tawsitter is in rather poor health just now."

The little man smiled. It was not a gesture which denoted any degree of mirth, but his lips were certainly parted for a moment.

"I expected to find my friend Tawsitter in poor health when the time came for me to put in an appearance," he remarked. "However, let me reassure him. At the present moment, it is not my intention to make any attempt upon his personal well-being. I shall deal with him in due course. Just now, I have other business here. That being so, I will sit at your table." He was there almost before they realised it, seated next to Jennerton and opposite Tawsitter.

"Come, come, Edward," he continued, with a gibe in every inflexion of his tone, "your welcome is not too effusive. Introduce me to your young friend here and order me a cocktail. A packet of cigarettes too. Be hospitable, Edward. Remember that I have come a long way to see you."

It was Jennerton who summoned the waiter and gave an order. Tawsitter, as a matter of fact, was almost incoherent. The shabby little man controlled the situation.

"My old friend, I fear, is suffering from nerves," he went on, as he accepted a cigarette from Jennerton's case. "Quite a common ailment at his time of life and with his past. It is never a pleasant realisation that the time arrives when one must pay. You were always a good spender, Tawsitter, but you hated to pay. How you are going to hate it now!"

Tawsitter made his effort then—perhaps it was time, for people were beginning to look at him curiously.

"You have a grievance against me, of course, Mark," he admitted, "but remember that I have made a great deal of money for you whilst you have been—er—away."

A dry and mirthless chuckle, one swift, contemptuous glance from those deep-set grey eyes, and the words died away upon Tawsitter's lips. Sloane moved around a little in his chair, as though to take note of the people at the different tables. He eyed them appraisingly.

"They look rich," he murmured. "Is it my fancy, or is that Silas Leedham, the South African millionaire?"

"That is Leedham," Jennerton assented.

Tawsitter gathered up his courage once more.

"Look here, Mark," he began tremulously, "let's talk together man to man. I did you a dirty trick by scuttling away when the trouble came. I know that, and of course "

His voice broke. Sloane leaned a little forward.

"If you mention a woman's name, Tawsitter," he warned him, "I shall shoot you where you sit."

"I won't then—I promise I won't. But, listen. I came off with the money, I know that, but I've always reckoned half of it's yours. I've done well. They speak in the City of 'Tawsitter's Millions.' That may be an exaggeration, but there's plenty for both of us. My lawyers are all prepared to see you. Lift your finger and you're a rich man; shake hands and you're a millionaire."

"Very interesting," Sloane murmured. "I will imitate your frankness. Whatever your fortune may be—and I hope it is a large one—I am going to have, not a part of it, but the whole, not as an act of grace, but when I choose. I am going to pluck the feathers out of you, one by one, and when I have finished doing that, I am going to see you where I have been. That is if I do not kill you first. I had serious thoughts of killing you when I arrived here. On the other hand, although I should consider I was doing the world a great service, a judge and a jury might not share that idea, and I have a fancy just now for my liberty. Still, be prepared at any time, Tawsitter. If ever the time should come when I could kill you without risk to myself, I shall most assuredly give myself that pleasure. Meanwhile, let me provide you with a little amusement."

He produced from his waistcoat pocket a curiously shaped, black ebony whistle, and, raising it to his lips, blew it—a long, shrill blast, with something strangely menacing in its throbbing note. The cheerful ripple of conversation stopped abruptly. The waiters paused in their hurrying back and forth, and stood like dumb and petrified figures, seeking everywhere to discover from which direction this unexpected sound had come, for the whistle had a peculiar quality in its reverberation which made it almost impossible to locate its actual source. Long before its echoes had died away, there was an amazing sequel. At almost every table, an apparently harmless-looking guest had become transformed into a grim, threatening figure, whose demands were swiftly formulated, and, in almost every case, as swiftly acceded to. The light laughter of a few minutes before was replaced abruptly by the screams of terrified women, and the sunlight in which every one had been basking glittered now upon half a score or more of sinister-looking weapons. As a spectacle, the thing was amazing — a triumph of organisation. One woman fainted. Two men who showed signs of resistance promptly abandoned the idea when they glanced into the dark barrel of one of those steadily handled guns. In less than three minutes, a little stream of unnoticeablelooking men made their way in leisurely fashion down the steps, and four waiting motor cars glided off in different directions. The buzz of recommencing conversation was mingled now with the hysterical sobs of the women, who were clasping their wrists and necks and bemoaning their losses. Mark Sloane leaned forward in his place, and there was a malevolent parting of his lips as he looked into the ashen face and noticed the trembling hands of his vis-`-vis.

"Quite like old times, eh, Tawsitter?" he mocked him.

When Jennerton descended into the lounge of the Hotel de Paris that evening, he found Tawsitter, his prospective host, in a state of nervous excitement, consuming his fourth cocktail. The place was filled with little parties from the steamer and the buzz of conversation was almost deafening. Naturally there was only one topic.

"Perfectly scandalous!" an apoplectic-looking Englishman, whose wife had lost an imitation pearl necklace, was declaring, moving from table to table amongst his friends. "They say those fellows got away with fifty thousand pounds' worth of notes and jewellery, but not a single arrest. All that the police have to say is that the gang probably came from Nice."

"Slickest hold-up I've ever seen," an American pronounced, with unwilling admiration. "Roadman Sam, as they used to call him, couldn't have worked a cleaner job in his best days. It was all over before one had time to think."

"I'm wondering what exactly is our position?" Jennerton observed, as he seated himself by Tawsitter's side.

"What do you mean?" the other demanded sharply.

"I mean about the whistle. We know very well who blew it."

"It's not our business."

Jennerton accepted the cocktail which a waiter had just brought and lit a cigarette.

"I'm not so sure about that," he ventured.

"I tell you it's nothing to do with us," Tawsitter reiterated.

"You're not down here to help the Monaco police. You're down here to save my life if you can."

Jennerton reflected for a moment.

"If you really look upon that as my mission," he said, "I think you might be a little more generous with your confidence. So far I have had to work in the dark."

"What do you want to know?" Tawsitter muttered.

"I should not think that you were a coward," Jennerton continued, "but at the very sight of this man Mark Sloane you relapse into a state of abject fear. I gather that you broke the law together in the States, that you were mixed up in some discreditable adventures, and that when the final reckoning came you left him to face it alone—and he kept his mouth shut. It doesn't seem to be enough to account for what I have seen and heard pass between you two. Is there anything else?"

"Yes," Tawsitter admitted in a low, almost inaudible whisper. At that moment a coincidence happened. The lift doors in front of them were opened, and through the lounge towards the restaurant came strolling an impeccably dressed, distinguishedlooking elderly man. He exchanged greetings here and there with some of the loungers, who had probably been his steamer companions, a humorous word or two apparently about the morning's episode. When he approached Jennerton and Tawsitter, however, he seemed to stiffen until the very muscles of his face were rigid. Tawsitter gripped at the sides of his chair in a spasm of terror, and Jennerton, watching him closely, wondered how far he had divined the truth. He was wondering still when Sloane came to a standstill in front of him.

"The man who blew the whistle?" he said quietly. "They are all asking who was the man who blew the whistle, the probable ringleader of the band. My friend Mr. Grogan there, who was relieved of forty thousand francs, which he had drawn ten minutes before from the bank, tells me that it came from the direction of our table. You have no theories as to who it was, I suppose, Tawsitter?"

The tortured man looked around. There was no one within direct hearing.

"None at all, blast you!" he muttered.

"And you, Mr. Jennerton?"

"Yes, I think I know who blew it," Jennerton acknowledged promptly.

"Capital!" Sloane exclaimed. "You must let me go and tell Grogan. He's very sore about his forty thousand francs. Somehow or other, both he and I were beginning to get the idea that the police over here are scarcely so capable as the police of New York. Not quite so quick at seeing a point. So you think you know who blew the whistle?" he added.

Tawsitter's hand fell upon his companion's shoulder in a furious grip.

"He knows nothing," he declared. "He saw nothing. Leave him alone, can't you—He is my man. He's here to protect me— nothing else. I tell you that he saw nothing."

Jennerton drew away his arm with a little spasm of pain. Sloane was smiling at them both in travestied geniality.

"Well, well," he murmured. "You, my friend Tawsitter, as I know quite well, are used to having your own way. I expect this will be no exception. Mr. Jennerton will realise that he saw nothing. Bon appetit? I have ordered a poulet a Fleury, with a mostelle to commence with—a delicious fish, the mostelle. I trust that you, too, will dine well. Do not spoil your appetites with too many cocktails. Au revoir!"

He passed on, the shabby little man transformed, dressed in perfectly fitting dinner clothes, poise and dignity in the deliberation of his movements. Tawsitter looked after him with eyes of hate.

"My nerve has gone," he muttered. "I'm a broken man, Jennerton. Fifteen years ago—well, I should have dealt with him. Now he taunts me. He knows that I'm afraid. I daren't speak of what burns in my heart. If I did, he would kill me. Have another cocktail."

"Certainly not," Jennerton refused curtly. "We'll dine, if you don't mind, but before we go in, remember that my question is still unanswered. There is something between you two men greater and more vital than any ordinary deceit or quarrel. I am doing my best, but supposing I have made a mistake in my premises? If I am to help you I can never do it on half confidences."

Tawsitter drained the last drop of his almost empty glass. He sat in that remote corner of the crowded lounge, his fists clenched until the knuckles showed white, gazing with bloodshot eyes over his companion's shoulder, down the long passage which led to the lift. It was as though he saw something there of which he feared to speak.

"Mark Sloane, before he was tried for felony, was tried for the murder of his wife. He was acquitted. He didn't murder her. But he believes I did. It's true I was down at Lone End that night, but I never touched her."

The two men sat in silence for several moments. The leader of the orchestra wandered out, playing softly the Serenata of Tostelli within a few feet of them. A dinner party passed, all laughter and gaiety. Jennerton rose to his feet.

"If we are going to dine at all," he suggested, "I think we had better go in."

In the restaurant they discovered what Jennerton had already ascertained, that it was a Gala Night. Streamers were floating over the tables, such flirtations as can be achieved with small puff balls were in full swing, the busy mattres d'hotel were presenting to their clients a variety of elegantly attired and boredlooking dolls. With his companion's last words still vibrating in his ears, it seemed to Jennerton that there was something ghastly in the somewhat riotous gaiety of their surroundings. Only a few tables away, in a corner by himself, Mark Sloane was dining, decorously and gravely. Tawsitter, with a little shudder, changed places with his companion to avoid facing his enemy.

"You know something of the truth now," he said. "I'll tell you the whole story as soon as I can bring myself to it. You see, both he and I were fond of Sadie in the old days, and he was always jealous of me. I could explain all that he misunderstands, but I know Mark. If I were to begin, at the first mention of her name, he'd shoot me. It's hideous, of course, but there you are. Money? Well, he mocks at money. What can I give him? What can I do? Sometimes I think that money is too much the measure of all things in this life. I can't give him a new heart or a new soul. I can't bring Sadie back to life. I'm just powerless. If it's my life he wants, he'd better have it."

There was a quality of despair in Tawsitter's tone, which was not without its pathos. Jennerton, however, for reasons of his own, remained unsympathetic.

"You have drunk too many cocktails and you are inclined to be melodramatic," he declared bluntly. "The greatest gift in the world is the gift of life and the man who affects to scoff at it is a fool. You want to live, of course; so does Mark Sloane. If one achieves in life, one should remember it and be proud. If one has dark places, one should atone for them and forget. At any rate, I know my problem now. Do you mind if I leave you for a few moments as soon as we have finished the salmon—I am going to have a word or two with Mark Sloane."

"You might as well talk to a pyramid of granite," Tawsitter replied, with a little shiver. "Don't waste your time with any silly attempt at arguing him into a reconciliation. He's here to see the end of me and he'll see it one way or another."

"Nevertheless," Jennerton murmured, "in a few minutes, if you will excuse me, I should like to have a look around the room. And afterwards, just a word or two with Mark Sloane."

"Take my advice and be careful what you say to him," his host warned Jennerton. . . .

The dance music began presently and soon afterwards Jennerton rose to his feet, strolled in leisurely fashion around the room, exchanging now and then a word or two with an acquaintance, and finally paused in front of the table at which Mark Sloane was dining. The little gentleman watched his approach without any change of expression.

"Mr. Sloane," Jennerton asked, standing by his table, "do vou know who I am?"

Sloane sipped his claret appreciatively. Then he leaned a little forward.

"I do not, sir," he admitted "and, to tell you the truth, I can conceive no matter in this world which interests me less."

"Notwithstanding that," was the quick rejoinder, "I shall tell you. I am a private detective engaged by a firm of solicitors in London to come down and look after Mr. Tawsitter."

"He will probably need your ministrations," Mark Sloane observed. "I trust that one of your duties has been to draft his will."

"Naturally," Jennerton continued, ignoring the latter part of his vis- `-vis' speech, "I did not come out without devoting some little attention to his career—and I may say to yours."

"It is the sort of impertinence which one may resent," the other sighed, "but against which one is powerless. However, as my last eight years have been spent in prison, I fear that you have found the soil for your investigations scarcely fruitful."

"I took the liberty of going even further back," Jennerton confided. "This morning I received a long cable from my agent in New York which, coupled with something Mr. Tawsitter has just told me, has revealed a somewhat curious side light upon what I must confess that I regarded as an impossible situation. In my own way, in my own time, I propose to share that knowledge with you. Meanwhile, answer me one question."

"At my discretion."

"Nine years ago—"

There was an almost murderous light in Mark Sloane's eyes.

"Young man," he warned him, slowly and emphatically, "there does not exist a single person in the world with whom I would discuss my past—much less a private detective who is in the service of Edward Tawsitter. Go back to your place and leave me alone. Tawsitter knows what he has to face from me, and a whole army of detectives will never avert what is coming to him. You are beginning to annoy me."

Jennerton reflected for a moment. It was one of those strange situations in which a single premature word might ruin his carefully arranged scheme. Tawsitter he could manage with ease; this man, he realised, was of different calibre.

"Mr. Sloane," he said, "you are an obstinate man, you are a rightfully embittered man, but I cannot believe that you are a fool. You don't want to be bothered with me longer than you can help, and I will show you how to get rid of me. I make you this request and this offer. Will you permit me to bring Mr. Tawsitter to this table—you need not exchange a single word with him—and join us in a brief stroll down the room— just as far, say, as that pillar there. If you are not content, at the end of our promenade, to change your point of view, if I am making a mistake, as I well may be, I will trouble you no more. I will leave Mr. Tawsitter to fight out his own salvation and I will go back to England to-morrow."

Sloane dipped the tips of his fingers in the bowl which stood by his side and dried them carefully.

"I have always been told, Mr. Jennerton," he observed, "that the principal hobby of the private detective was the discovery of mares' nests. To show you that I am not an unreasonable man, I will come and look at yours."

Jennerton made his way back to his own table, but did not resume his seat. He leaned forward and spoke with unaccustomed earnestness.

"Mr. Tawsitter," he confided, "during the next few minutes, I am either going to make a ridiculous mistake, or I am going to succeed in my mission and secure your safety. Will you take a sporting chance and place yourself entirely in my hands? I may tell you that Mr. Sloane has agreed to do so." Tawsitter rose nervously to his feet.

"Of course," he acquiesced eagerly. "What is it you want me to do? Is Mark willing to talk things over?"

"I'm afraid I haven't progressed so far as that," Jennerton confessed, "but I beg you to do just as I ask for the next few minutes. Follow me and remain silent."

He led the way to Mark Sloane's table. The little man laid down his napkin and rose to his feet. Jennerton slipped in between them.

"I want you both to come this way with me, please," he begged. "Never mind if I seem to be asking you to do a ridiculous thing. We will take our promenade like the others."

Jennerton's manner was convincing, and the two men followed him as he threaded his way through the tables, up to the farther and more thinly occupied portion of the room where the less favoured guests had been placed. They rounded a pillar and Jennerton brought them to a standstill.

"Pull yourselves together," he enjoined. "This is either going to be the shock of your lives or the great mistake of mine. Look!"

It was perhaps as well that they had reached a retired position, for even the hurrying waiters and the most casual looker-on must have been more or less conscious of that sudden atmosphere of fierce drama. At the nearest table to them were seated two people whose appearance sufficiently explained their inconspicuous position. The woman was large and fat. She was even gross. She had pendulous, berouged cheeks, pencilled eyebrows, and a mass of yellow hair, indifferent product of the coiffeur's art. She was extravagantly dressed and bejewelled. Ker moist, fat hand was filled with the balls which she had been throwing. There were drops of perspiration upon her forehead. She had been entering without a doubt into the spirit of the gala. At the coming of the three men, scenting fresh victims, she poised herself to throw more balls. Suddenly they all dropped from her nerveless fingers. Her face became almost haggard. The rouge cracked, the livid streaks showed underneath. The only natural thing about her was the fear which glazed her eyes. It was at Sloane she gazed and she seemed as one in the presence of the Angel of Death.

"Mark!" she gasped.

Her companion rose to his feet—a very alarming-looking person. He had a massive bull neck, and the huge girth of a fighter—a man of magnificent physique, although he too had run overmuch to flesh. His muscles quivered underneath his dinner coat. His voice, with its note of the Bowery, was threatening.

"Say, what have you guys got on Sadie? What d'you want here, anyways?"

"Don't let 'em come near me, Ned!" the woman moaned.

"He'll kill me, sure. I always told you he'd kill me when he got out."

"I'll see to it that he don't," the big man declared menacingly.

"Now, then! Let's hear what you've got to say, and keep your distance."

"I have only this one question to ask of the lady who was once my wife," Mark Sloane said, his voice curiously changed and thin. "Why did you leave me to be tried for murder or manslaughter when all the time you were alive?"

She tried to speak but her tone was choked. The man with her emptied the remains of their second bottle of champagne into her glass. She drank it and gained a momentary courage.

"I knew they couldn't fix it on you, Mark," she pleaded. "It was Liza they found, who'd got into trouble with some drummer, and was always pinching my clothes. They'd got you safe enough for the other job, and I didn't want to be mixed up in that, but honest to God, Mark, if they'd brought the other thing on you, I'd have spoke up. I knew they couldn't, though. Ted Grinnet's sister—her who was called as witness because Liza boarded with them once—she knew I was alive. I'd seen her. Ned, here, gave her a thousand dollars. She was all fixed about the identification. That's why I lay low."

All this time, Tawsitter stood like a man in a dream. Not a word had passed his lips. He was perhaps breathing a little more quickly than usual. Otherwise he was apparently tonguetied. And then, the big man spoke up.

"You've asked your question," he pointed out. "I'll ask you now, Mark Sloane, to let my wife be. If there's any one thinking of making trouble, they've got Ned Briscombe to deal with, and I didn't quit the ring because I was through with it, mark you. I left it because I'd got all the stuff I wanted, and I'd have you remember this—there isn't a man in this room I couldn't knock into his grandmother's coffin with a flick."

"I think," Jennerton suggested, his hands falling upon the shoulders of his two companions, "that there is no need for us to intrude further."

"You've spoke a mouthful," the big man growled—"a swell mouthful too, at that. I ain't struck on the fronts of you. Maybe I'll like the backs better."

They turned away. The woman was giggling hysterically, and it seemed to them as they passed down the room that the sound followed them. They returned to Mark Sloane's table and, without a word of invitation or suggestion, they seated themselves there. Tawsitter was still dazed, but Sloane was rapidly recovering himself.

"I knew I hadn't killed Sadie," he said quietly. "All the same, I never doubted but that it was her body they'd found, and as it wasn't I who'd done it, I thought that it must have been you, Edward. She was playing us both off, with Ned there in the background all the time—the only man she cared a damn about. I reckoned you must have found it out when I did—the day I was lagged."

Tawsitter put his hand to his forehead.

"Sadie never counted that much with me, Mark," he declared.

"It's true I was down at Lone End that night, but I didn't go to see her. I went to get our safe deposit receipts. I left you in the hell of a hole, I know," he sighed, "but what was the use of both of us doing time—I thought I'd better carry on. I haven't done so badly. If I'd been in Sing Sing with you, we shouldn't have been the men we are to-day."

There was a queer brooding silence. Two of the three were following out their own train of thought. Jennerton watched them anxiously. When the wine was brought, he filled three glasses. Both of the other men drained the contents of theirs at once. Then Jennerton breathed a sigh of relief. Many evil things die between men who drink together.

"Mind if I say a few words?" he suggested, when the glasses had been refilled.

"I should say it was about time," a new Tawsitter declared.

"How on earth did you tumble to all this?"

"Easily enough, except for the final twist," Jennerton explained. "My agents in New York gave me all the information that was necessary, and as soon as you two met, I could see how things were. I knew it was the other affair that was rankling and I worked on that."

"But how on earth did you produce these two?" Tawsitter asked, bewildered.

"I've been on their track ever since I came out," Jennarton told them. "I daren't go near them, though. The woman's so scared, they'd have left by the next train. I squared one of the maitres d'hotel here—paid for their dinners, and got a card of invitation to the Gala Dinner to-night sent them from the management. I was terrified that they wouldn't come, but, as you see, the scheme worked."

There was another silence. It seemed to Jennerton that his two companions were like a pair of awkward schoolboys, anxious to find some excuse for an ill- considered fight.

"I should just like to add this," Jennerton continued. "Tawsitter here, of course, might have played the part of chivalrous hero, if he had let himself be taken with you, Sloane, but from the point of view of our ordinary life, he would have been a damned fool. He's done better than that. He's made a lot of money—nearly three millions, he tells me—and half of it's in the bank, invested in your name."

Mark Sloane looked across the table.

"That's square of you, anyway, Edward," he admitted. "I wish to God I'd known! I'd made up my mind not to touch Edward's money, because I was going to kill him. Ted Heaney and one or two of the lads were on the boat, and we planned that little affair on the hill this morning. How am I going to get out of that?"

Jennerton coughed.

"I gather, Mr. Sloane," he said, "that, in view of the altered circumstances now existing, and your half share in Tawsitter's millions, you might be disposed to look upon life from a different angle."

"I am not a fool," was the emphatic reply. "I was feeling pretty bitter when I landed, and I had less than a hundred dollars. You can figure it out that I was ready for anything. It was a neat job," he concluded sadly, "but I'm afraid we'll never get away with it."

Jennerton drew his chair a little closer to the table. A good many people had left and their corner was now almost deserted.

"I want to go back to London and feel that I have made a clean job of this," he confided. "This is what I propose. . . ."

The crowd at the Royalty Bar on the following morning was greater even than ever, and the hold-up was still the one subject of conversation. The heavy losers occupied themselves with railing at the police, who had as yet made no arrests. Some of the others were inclined to take the whole affair as a stupendous joke—especially a millionaire yacht owner, who had forgotten his pocketbook and been obliged to borrow the money for his cocktails! Guido and Francis were all the time in a state of repressed excitement. They no longer appeared to be facing impending disaster, and, without dropping any definite hint, their attitude towards the affair seemed to have changed. At about half-past twelve came a most sensational and wholly unexpected thrill. Jennerton, who had been occupying the same table as on the previous morning, with the same companions, rose to his feet and climbed up the little mound of sward in the middle of the garden. Immediately afterwards he drew a black ebony whistle from his waistcoat pocket and blew it. A dozen people started to their feet, there was a clamour of voices, and pandemonium threatened. Jennerton's clearly spoken words, however, were sufficient to arrest it.

"Ladies and gentlemen," he said, "I am here on behalf of a person who yesterday indulged in what he now recognises to have been a very foolish practical joke. He wishes to make every amends in his power. Don't go away, please, any of you. The whole proceeds of yesterday's bogus robbery are here in the bag which Guido has just brought out. Your pearls, Lady Ronaldson," he went on, handing them down. "Lady Barrett, your pocketbook. Colonel Thompson, seven mille five hundred francs, which you had in an envelope. Mr. Grogan, forty mille. Come and fetch your money, please, and do tell your friends who were here yesterday and do not happen to be present to-day, that their belongings are waiting for them in the bar." The clamour of mingled laughter, abuse and questions was almost indescribable. So were the expressions on the various faces. Jennerton blew his whistle once more.

"Ladies and gentlemen," he continued, "my client—I am a professional man and merely acting on his behalf—desires to offer you all his most humble apologies for a practical joke which he now realises was an exceedingly poor one. As some slight mark of his regret he has deposited a sum with the tenders of the bar sufficient to pay for all cocktails for to-day and for the remainder of the week, and he hopes that the generosity of your orders will be some indication of your forgiveness."

Laughter! It commenced with a ripple. It proceeded to a series of guffaws. It reached an abandon which brought passers-by to a standstill and even sent loiterers in the street below hurrying up the steps. A hundred and fifty swaying forms under those gala umbrellas! Laughter which demanded the services of handkerchiefs! Laughter which wiped away every element of irritation, and in which even the prowling gendarmes joined. Then, for a quarter of an hour, the waiters were busier than ever before in their lives. Every one seemed to have made up his mind to get his own back, so far as he was able, out of this mysterious disturber of his peace of mind. Double cocktails were recklessly ordered. Every table was booked for the rest of the week. The three men in the corner, a little removed from the general hubbub, emptied their glasses, and Tawsitter rose to his feet.

"Say, Mark, and you, Jennerton," he suggested, "what about a bite of lunch?"</story>