<story title="THE LION'S DEN" date="1927">
The world-famed house of Jennerton and Company, Limited, was busy in all its branches except one. There was movement everywhere in this unique establishment save in one direction only—the top. No event had occurred of recent date in the criminal world of London of sufficient importance to merit the personal attention of the head of the firm.

"Bit dull for you, I'm afraid, my lad," Mr. Jennerton, Senior, remarked to his son in the middle of a morning of idleness. "You'd better get down to the country and have some golf."

Gerald looked out of the window and shivered. "Pouring cats and dogs, Dad," he announced—"or rather it's drizzling, and will be doing worse directly. Why couldn't I take on one of these shadowing jobs, just for a lark? I'd love, for instance, to follow the errant Mr. Gregs, the grocer from Leicester, through his hectic evening. Trocadero at seven-thirty, and so onwards." His father shook his head. "I don't want you to get mixed up in that sort of business, Gerald," he said. "Remember, directly you leave here on one of those bread-and-butter jobs you're marked down. The princes of the criminal world are often as careless as you like, but the rank and file know their job—those who make a regular living of it."

There was a knock at the door and a card was presented. Mr. Jennerton studied it without particular enthusiasm. There was a great deal to be learned from cards and this one was a printed affair, with the name of a department store in the corner:

Mr. Percy Jayes,
Bomford's (Branch B).

"Want to see me personally?" the head of the firm enquired.

"Said that no one else would do, sir," the secretary replied.

Mr. Jennerton .nodded, and Mr. Percy Jayes was shown in. He was a rather undersized man, neatly dressed but of negative appearance. His face was as smooth as a billiard ball. Removing his hat, he displayed a bald patch on the top of his head. His expression, if it could be dignified by such a term, was one of fixed melancholy. He was the personification of unobtrusiveness. Only his voice seemed unusual; for his size and slight physique it was unexpectedly deep.

"What can I do for you, sir?" Mr. Jennerton enquired, as he waved his visitor to a seat.

"I'm afraid when you've heard what I have to say," Mr. Jayes began, "you will consider my visit an intrusion. If you are really a farseeing man, though, Mr. Jennerton, as you should be to have achieved such eminence in your profession, you will appreciate the situation which I have to place before you."

"Proceed," Mr. Jennerton, who was an economist in words, invited.

"I am engaged in the haberdashery department of Bomford's," Mr. Jayes confided. "I have been there for a great many years. There are times when trade is quiet and customers few. I have become accustomed to filling up my spare time by observing my fellow human beings."

Mr. Jennerton was beginning to lose interest. Amateur excursions into psychology were his bites noires. He forbore to make any remark, however, hoping to get to the end of the matter more quickly.

"In my department," Mr. Jayes continued, "there is a young lady of very prepossessing appearance, in charge of the neckwear counter, named Miss Florence Barnes. There are also two young men, one a shopwalker, and one a senior salesman, named respectively Harold Mason and Edward Angus. These two young men were friends until the last six months. I believe, as a matter of fact, that they still live together. They are scarcely on speaking terms, however, the cause being Miss Florence Barnes."

Mr. Jennerton sighed. Nevertheless, he reflected upon his empty day and resigned himself to listen.

"The climax of this little affair, which I am afraid must sound very humdrum and insignificant to you," the visitor went on, "will probably arrive during the next twenty-four hours. The post of manager of the whole department has fallen vacant. The two most likely candidates are Edward Angus and Harold Mason. It is the general impression throughout the place that Miss Florence Barnes will marry the successful one. It is also my conviction— and I have studied carefully the characters of these two young men—that should Harold Mason receive the promotion, Edward Angus, will, without the slightest doubt, kill him."

"Shop assistants, as a rule, are not a bloodthirsty race," Mr. Jennerton ventured.

"Shop assistants," Mr. Jayes rejoined "have the same human passions as other men, only the routine of their lives gives them fewer opportunities for a display of them. I have studied Edward Angus for years. He is possessed, without the slightest doubt, of homicidal tendencies. I know what he is capable of in a moment of disappointment."

"Well, whereabouts do we come in?" Mr. Jennerton enquired.

"We are professional detectives. We are not moral preceptors. It seems to me that it is for you, who know the young man, to use your influence with him."

"I have done my best," Mr. Jayes declared. "I have spent many hours endeavouring to make the young man see reason. I cannot flatter myself that I have made any real progress."

"You are here, I presume, as a matter of business," Mr. Jennerton persisted. "What is your proposition? What do you wish us to do about it?"

"Anything that occurs to you. You cannot possibly have attained your pre- eminence in the profession without some knowledge of and interest in the byways of psychology leading to crime. I have no special regard for either of these young men, yet I know quite well that within a few days there will be murder done unless there is interference. If it is known that you hold a watching brief over those two young men and that their movements are subject to your surveillance, it is my honest conviction that there will be no crime committed. If, on the other hand, the affair makes no appeal to you because of the unusual stage of its development in which your intervention is sought, then you will open your papers one morning, read of a tragedy, and be compelled to say to yourselves, 'We could have prevented this.'" Mr. Jennerton had had enough of it. He was tired of his visitor and it was almost time for his morning glass of sherry.

"I am sorry, Mr. Jayes," he pronounced, "but this matter does not interest us. We are concerned in the solution of crimes which have been actually committed. We have no interest in hypothetical cases, which may or may not lead anywhere." Mr. Jayes rose to his feet and bowed primly. Afterwards he took his departure.

It would be hard to imagine a more cheerless place than the haberdashery department of Bomford and Company, at four o'clock that afternoon. Customers were few, but those who were present brought with them an atmosphere of dripping mackintoshes and rain- soaked outer habiliments of every sort. Gerald paused purposely upon the threshold to have a good look around. A young man in the garb of a shopwalker, with pale, sunken cheeks and a slight, black moustache, hurried forward.

"Which department were you looking for, sir?" he enquired. Gerald studied him for a moment before replying. It was an ordinary face, an ordinary personality, yet there was a slightly nervous twitch about the mouth which might perhaps have denoted the capacity for emotionalism. Just at that moment, out of his cage, where he seemed to have been working upon a ledger, came Mr. Jayes. He passed the two without a flicker of recognition. Only, in passing, he murmured a single sentence.

"I should like the Manchester invoices as soon as possible, Mr. Angus."

"I'll bring them along presently," the young man promised.

"Where can I direct you, sir?"

"I was looking for neckties," Gerald confided.

The shopwalker led the way to an empty stretch of counter, behind which a very pretty young woman was yawning. He held a chair for this customer of somewhat unusual appearance, and Gerald glanced into his face as he sat down. It was more than ever difficult to believe in Mr. Percy Jayes' prophecy. If this were Edward Angus, he seemed to belong to the type of man reckoned as being incapable of killing a fly. The whole atmosphere of the department as a breeding place for the passions seemed impossible.

"What sort of neckties did you require, sir?" the young lady asked.

"Oh—er—any sort—dark colour," Gerald replied, a little vaguely.

So far as regards the young lady, Gerald thought, as he watched her standing on tiptoe to reach some boxes, Mr. Percy Jayes had told the truth. She was not only pretty—she was remarkably pretty. Her complexion was good, her fair hair deftly arranged, her eyes deep-set and of a most attractive shade of blue. Her voice was scarcely so pleasant, but it was at least amiable. Gerald chose the least revolting of the ties offered, in leisurely fashion, the young lady responding to his conversational overtures in flashes. He noticed that her manner changed immediately Mr. Edward Angus appeared round the corner during his perambulations.

"Do you sell anything besides neckties?" he enquired presently.

"Silk handkerchiefs," she told him. "We have some very pretty ones."

Gerald shuddered, but he was getting interested in that sidelong, uneasy glance occasionally bestowed upon him by the restless shopwalker, and he was also wondering whether Mr. Harold Mason might not put in an appearance. He was making his way with mixed feelings through a box of handkerchiefs, when a rather stout, important-looking young man, with neatly parted light hair and a toothbrush moustache, came hurrying up with a handful of invoices. He leaned over the counter and murmured an unheard enquiry to Miss Barnes. She nodded.

"That's all right, thank you, Mr. Mason," she said. "I'm not really quite out of stock of any of those numbers." He passed on, with a keen glance at Gerald, who was certainly not of the type usually to be found in Bomford's. The latter, who felt that his mission was now completed, selected six of the least atrocious of the handkerchiefs and asked for his bill.

"Have you far to go this awful night?" he enquired.

"Miles and miles," the young lady confessed. "Won't it be horrid?"

"Better stay up somewhere near here and have a little dinner," Gerald suggested boldly.

"Wouldn't I just love to," she murmured. "I can't, though. These stupid people here won't let me have a minute to myself."

"Admirers?"

She nodded. "I suppose so. There are two of them quite foolish. One of them always has to see me home, and then I'm in trouble with the other. If I tried to get off alone, though, it would be worse still."

"Another time, perhaps?"

She smiled at him doubtfully. "I'd like to come, all right," she confessed, "but you don't know how much trouble there is if we take up with any one who doesn't belong to the place. Do you mind paying over there?. . . Oh, I say!"

For a moment she absolutely forgot him, stood motionless, in fact, with his parcel still in her hand. A businesslike-looking young woman had hurried into the department and tapped Mr. Harold Mason upon the shoulder. A little flush seemed to spring into his face at her words. He turned and followed her.

"Well, I never!" Miss Barnes exclaimed to herself. "Harold Mason, after all! Oh, I beg your pardon, sir," she went on, turning to Gerald. "Here's your parcel. If you wouldn't mind paying at the desk over there."

"What about Harold Mason?" he enquired, smiling.

"Silly of me," she apologised. "The Chief's just sent for him, that's all. There's rather an important post vacant up here, and we've all been wondering who'd get it."

"Are you glad?"

There was a slight expression of discontent in her face as she looked at him. "I don't know," she answered. "Mr. Angus is more refined in a way, but I suppose Mr. Mason is more of a man. He plays tennis beautifully, and he's going to buy a motorcycle this year."

Gerald made his way over to the caged-in little office, behind which sat the sphinxlike Mr. Percy Jayes. The latter scrutinised the bill and the five- pound note which Gerald produced, and proceeded slowly to count out the change.

"If you would care to delay your departure for one moment, sir," he suggested—"I'll be as long as possible over the adjustment of this little matter—you may see something." Gerald, not greatly interested, nevertheless accepted the invitation. After all, though, there wasn't much for any one to see. In a minute or two Mr. Harold Mason returned, the personification of a somewhat arrogant and vain young man, elated with what he was perfectly convinced was a well-deserved success. He shook hands with Miss Barnes, and there was a touch almost of condescension in his manner. One or two of the other assistants came hurrying up. From round the corner in one of his ceaseless perambulations came Edward Angus, stopped short when he saw the little group, then came on with nervous, unsteady steps.

"Watch him," Mr. Percy Jayes whispered.

Gerald watched. They were really only a few yards away, and he could see the blue veins standing out upon the tightly clenched hand, the sallow shade of fury which had crept into the young man's face. His voice, too, was harsh and unnatural—very unlike the suave monotone in which he had greeted Gerald.

"So you've got it, Harold Mason?"

"I have the appointment, if that is what you're referring to," the other replied affably. "I've been offered the general managership of the department at a satisfactory salary. I take over tomorrow morning. Won't you congratulate me?"

"Blast you, no!" was the emphatic retort, as Angus passed on through the wide opening into the next department. . . .

"One pound, two and elevenpence change," Mr. Percy Jayes said. "Thank you, sir."

Gerald pocketed the money. The little man behind the wire grille dropped his voice.

"At least, Mr. Jennerton," he continued, leaning forward in his cage but still without the slightest change in his expression,

"however humbly it may have been staged, you have seen the makings of a very human little drama."

Gerald nodded. "That may be so," he agreed. "I don't fancy there's enough vitality, however, about either of the actors, to carry it any further."

Mr. Percy Jayes looked at him almost wistfully from behind his spectacles. "You don't propose to take any action then, sir?" he asked.

Gerald shook his head. "I can't see," he decided, "that it is a matter for any one's profitable interference." He took his leave, and Mr. Percy Jayes bent once more over his ledger, only for several moments he made no entry, for his eyes were fast closed.

"It's hades, I tell you! I can't go back. If I see him—Mr. Jayes, if I see him with that fat smile, I shall go mad! He'll be snoring by now, blast him! He doesn't know what it is to lie awake. He snores half the night."

Mr. Percy Jayes poured whisky from the half-emptied bottle which stood between them into his companion's tumbler, and helped himself to soda water.

"Angus," he said, "it's hard luck on you and, believe me, I am one of those who agree that you have been treated unfairly. The post should have been given to you, and if it had—"

"Don't go on," the young man groaned. "That's what I can't bear. Florence! It was my turn to take her home, but they'd gone before I was ready. To think that they've spent all the evening together. They've been talking of getting married!"

"You'll have to face it, my lad," Mr. Jayes warned him. "You'll have to think of them as man and wife, and before long, too."

"Oh, don't, don't!" the other sobbed.

"Drink your whisky," Mr. Jayes enjoined. "I'm a temperate man, as you know, Angus, but to-night I think that you are better drunk. If you are going home at all, you had better go home drunk. You can stay here, if you like."

Angus glanced around at the bare tidiness of his host's room and shivered. It was not a room to dispel depression.

"I don't want to go home, and I don't want to stay here," Angus muttered. "I'm afraid!"

"What of?"

There was an ugly, a venomous light in the young man's eyes. The will for evil things lurked there, if not the courage.

"Of seeing Mason," he groaned.

"Rubbish!" his companion scoffed. "Finish your drink." Angus drank. Then his head sank forward, his chin upon his folded arms. In a moment or two he was asleep. . . . When he woke, Mr. Jayes had removed the greater part of his apparel and was glancing patiently at the clock.

"I don't want to turn you out," he apologised, "but I think you'd better go home. I will join you in one more glass of whisky." The young man held out his tumbler, which his host filled with no niggardly hand.

"You'll understand, Angus," he said, "that in a general way I detest excess in any form. To-night I look upon as being an exceptional occasion. You need oblivion; drink can supply it." Angus drained the contents of his tumbler and rose abruptly. Curiously enough, this last drink seemed to have steadied him.

"You're a good chap, Jayes," he declared. "Whatever happens, you've done your best. Good night."

He went out and stumbled down the stairs. Mr. Percy Jayes listened for the closing of the door. Afterwards he removed all signs of the night's debauch and in a few minutes was sleeping peacefully.

Mr. Jennerton, Senior, laid down his newspaper, just at the same time Gerald abandoned his.

"Well, that little fellow knew what he was talking about, all right," the former remarked. "I don't see what any one could have done to prevent it, though."

"According to the evidence at the inquest," Gerald pointed out,

"Mr. Percy Jayes himself seems to have done everything possible. He kept Angus with him throughout the evening, gave him some dinner, tried to soothe him, kept him in his rooms until nearly morning, offered to let him stay there. All useless! The young man's mind must have been made up beforehand."

"My paper doesn't give the full details," Mr. Jennerton observed. "What actually happened? Did the fellow give himself up or did they hear the shot?"

"He rushed out into the street into the arms of a policeman,'' Gerald recounted. "He took him upstairs, and there was Mason in his pyjamas lying across the bed, shot through the heart. According to the policeman, Angus began to stammer out an incoherent story, but he naturally stopped him at once."

Mr. Jennerton clipped a cigar and lighted it. "The person who commits a murder under such circumstances," he observed, "is either a fool or a man of immense courage. Apparently this young man Angus makes no attempt at concealment. He bought the revolver in the store where he worked. For the last few weeks he has been threatening what would happen if Mason got this promotion instead of him, and took his girl away. He doesn't give himself a chance. He goes home at night, half crazy with drink, shoots the man as he had threatened to do, and then blunders out into the arms of a policeman. The Archangel Gabriel couldn't help a fool like that, who declares that he is going to commit a murder, and does it."

"All the same," Gerald ruminated, "I see that he is going to plead 'Not Guilty.'"

It was a week or so later when Gerald found his way once more to the haberdashery department of Messrs. Bomford and Company. Mr. Percy Jayes' cage was occupied by a stranger, but Miss Florence Barnes, wearing a black dress, was still in her place. She welcomed her prospective customer with a wan smile.

"You haven't worn out all those ties yet, sir?" she remarked.

"I never shall in this world," he confided. "I thought I'd like to see you again, though."

She sighed. "Such a time as I've been through! You read all about it in the papers, I suppose? You were in that very afternoon."

"I was indeed," Gerald assented. "I have been so sorry for you, Miss—er "

"Barnes," she told him—"Florence Barnes. And indeed I've needed sympathy," she proceeded. "He was always a little crazy, was Edward Angus, but although he'd threatened it often enough, I never dreamed he'd got it in him to do a thing like that."

"I suppose he became thoroughly worked up?" Gerald suggested.

"That's it," she agreed. "Between you and me, I think he should have been made manager. It was the injustice of it that made him furious. And then there was me," she went on. "I'm sure I couldn't help it. One's dead, and the other's worse than dead, so I don't want to say anything that might sound unkind, but neither of them was exactly my sort. And yet, what could I do? They were at me all the time. At last I made up my mind that I'd marry the one that got the raise and could keep a servant for me—and I told them so. You don't think I'm to blame, do you?"

"Of course I don't," he assured her. "As soon as you're feeling a little more settled, we'll have that dinner, if you like, and do a theatre."

"I'd love it," she whispered, leaning towards him, after a nervous glance around, "only we mustn't let any one know here. They're so gossipy, especially after what's happened."

"Of course we won't," Gerald promised.

"Do you mind buying some little thing now, please?" she begged uneasily. "Mr. Howard, the new shopwalker, is very strict about gossiping, and it's about time he walked around." Gerald selected three black evening ties—the only article of apparel he could think of which he was ever likely to wear. While she was folding them up, the new shopwalker turned the corner and passed. She shivered.

"Do you know," she confided. "I am sometimes terrified here. I look up, and I think that I see him—Edward—coming round the corner, just as he used to, always looking out to see that I wasn't talking too much to the customers. It's been awful to stand here day after day."

"Where's the gentleman who took my money last time?" Gerald enquired, as he received his bill.

"Mr. Jayes? Oh, he's manager of the department now."

"He's the man with whom Edward Angus spent the evening before he committed the murder, isn't he?"

She nodded. "Mr. Jayes did his best to stop him," she said, "but Edward wouldn't listen to any advice. He just drank and drank, until he didn't know what he was doing."

"What about next week for our little dinner?" Gerald suggested.

"Not until after the trial, please. I couldn't stand it. And besides, you wouldn't believe how difficult it is—I'm like a prisoner here."

"Don't keep me too long," Gerald begged. "How do the people here feel about poor Angus?"

"Well, they're all very shocked and sorry, of course," she replied, "although he wasn't exactly a favourite. They're going to get up a petition. Two disappointments like that in one day—he was perfectly crazy, anyhow."

Gerald raised his hat and took his leave. Mr. Percy Jayes bowed to Mr. Jennerton, Senior, and to Gerald, and accepted a comfortable chair. He was as imperturbable as ever.

"I was interested to get your letter, Mr. Jennerton," he said, "and naturally I made it my business to see you at once. If anything can be done for that poor young fellow, it is my wish to help."

"Very kind of you," Mr. Jennerton, Senior, remarked approvingly. "It's my son who's been moving in this affair. To tell you the truth, I am rather in the dark about it all."

Gerald drew up his chair exactly opposite his visitor's. "Mr. Jayes," he began, "what my father says is quite true. You succeeded in interesting me in these two men when you first called. I paid a visit to Bomford's that same afternoon, as you know. I even indulged in certain other activities."

"Certain other activities," Mr. Jayes repeated mechanically.

"I do not quite understand. I came here hoping for your intervention. You refused it."

"My father refused it," Gerald corrected. "I myself was sufficiently intrigued to bring a man down to Bomford's and have Angus watched—Angus and one other person."

Mr. Percy Jayes made no remark. His manner, however, betrayed an intelligent and sympathetic interest in Gerald's recital.

"Through the courtesy of his solicitor," the latter went on. "I have had a few minutes' conversation with Angus. His solicitor and I have succeeded in getting a little further than that blundering statement of his—'he didn't know he'd done it.' I dare say I may surprise you when I tell you I believe Angus to be innocent."

There was a brief silence. Mr. Jayes blinked several times rapidly; otherwise he showed no signs of surprise or shock.

"This interests me exceedingly," he confessed. "You mean, perhaps, that he shot poor Mason when he was drunk, and was therefore not morally responsible for his action. That is my own view, and is to form, I understand, the basis of his defence."

"Not that at all," Gerald declared brusquely. "My idea is that Mason was shot by some one else."

Again that silence, a little curious in the high-ceilinged room.

"Shot by some one else?" Mr. Jayes repeated, and in his strange immobility he seemed like one of Madame Tussaud's waxen images. "But who else could possibly have had any motive in killing him? Nothing was stolen from his rooms, so it could not have been robbery. He had no other enemy except Angus."

"I think that he had," Gerald objected. "I think, Mr. Jayes, that there was a third person who had proposed marriage to Miss Florence Barnes, a third person who had been twice passed over as regards that managership. That third person might also have been Mason's enemy. What do you think, Mr. Jayes? You ought to know, for that third person was you."

For the first time during their acquaintance, Gerald saw a singular phenomenon; he saw Mr. Jayes smile. The lips parted and a little noise came from behind his throat. Gerald leaned farther across the table. His voice had acquired a new sternness.

"With the help of certain evidence which I have collected, Mr. Jayes," he said, "I reconstruct what happened after this fashion. It was you who for the last month or so had been inciting Edward Angus to go about, threatening what he would do if Mason got that managerial post instead of him, and if Mason married Florence Barnes. It was you who persuaded Angus that he could frighten Mason. He never meant to murder him really—he hadn't the pluck—but you took him by the hand up to the threshold of crime.

"You brought Angus home with you the night of the murder —out of kindness, of course! You made him drunk. You probably drugged the whisky. When he was fast asleep and incapable, you took his key and you made your way to Broughton Street. You let yourself in, you crept up the stairs, you knew where to find the revolver, you went to the bedside, and you shot Harold Mason. Then you left the revolver where you found it, came back again, and when Angus woke up you were preparing for bed. You forced more whisky upon him. You sent him out, primed, as you knew, to believe anything when he reached that place and saw the revolver waiting.

"He was quite right in what he said—'he didn't know he'd done it.' You murdered Harold Mason, Mr. Jayes—you who are now the manager of the haberdashery department of Bomford's and engaged to marry Miss Florence Barnes."

"I came to you the first time from the best of motives," Mr. Jayes said thoughtfully. "Edward Angus would never have had the courage to kill Mason. I had. I thought if I could interest you in the case, if you would accept, say, a watching brief, that then I should no longer dare to listen to that murderous little whisper which was in my ears night and day. However, I made a mistake."

"So far as you are concerned," Gerald replied, "you certainly did. You have succeeded, however, in your ostensible object—you have saved a human life."

Mr. Jennerton, Senior, spoke through the house telephone,

"Send Sergeant Shields up with that warrant," he directed.</story>