<story title="THE YANKEEDOODLE KID" date="1927">
Gerald Jennerton, who had been absorbed in the study of a report concerning the misdeeds of a much wanted criminal, was disturbed by a slight tapping a few yards away. He glanced up and discovered to his surprise that he had a visitor. A small boy, immaculately dressed in Eton coat, grey trousers, white and spotless collar, his silk hat rather on the back of his head, was standing before the desk, tapping his leg lightly with a bamboo cane. The boy was apparently of tender years, but he had an intelligent, even an attractive face. His nose was slightly retrousse, and he was very much freckled. His eyes were blue and his manner earnest.

"Are you Mr. Gerald Jennerton?" he asked.

"I am," Gerald admitted. "Who the mischief are you?"

"Mr. Gerald Jennerton, the great detective?" his visitor insisted.

"You've got the name all right."

"Mine's Philip Fotherhay," the small boy confided. "I'm at Brown's—your old house."

"How do you know that?" Gerald enquired.

"Oh, we know all about you at Worsley," the boy assured him.

"Decent sort of school, isn't it? The Jay Bird they used to call you. ... I beg your pardon!"

The moment was an awkward one. Gerald coughed. "That's all right," he said. "Every one gets a nickname there."

"Of course they do," the boy concurred eagerly. "They call me the Guinea Pig. I've always been awfully interested in you, Mr. Jennerton."

"Very kind of you, I'm sure. You seem to know a great deal about me," Gerald observed.

"Of course I do," the boy assented. "We've a young cub in Dicker's house who used to be at that school in Hampstead. He doesn't think Sherlock Holmes is in it with you or your father. I say, I've got a kid waiting outside. Can I bring him in?"

"Certainly," Gerald acquiesced. "Bring him in by all means." The boy crossed the room, and opened the door. "Come in, Yankeedoodle!" he invited.

An exact replica of Master Philip Fotherhay, so far as costume was concerned, obeyed the summons. His complexion was sallower, however, and his figure more wiry. He acknowledged an introduction to Gerald with a marked absence of shyness, and established himself on the arm of his friend's chair.

"We looked the address up in the telephone directory, but we had to take a taxi. Bit off our beat, this."

"You wanted to consult me professionally?" Gerald asked.

"If you mean what I think you mean, that's what we do," Philip admitted, a little enigmatically.

A smile flickered across Gerald's lips. "Any trouble at Brown's?" he enquired. "Pocket knives being stolen, or cakes pilfered, eh?"

Philip discarded the idea with a scornful gesture. "It isn't any piffling thing like that," he declared solemnly. "Yankeedoodle and I have talked it over, and we believe that something horrible is going to happen where we're staying to-night."

"And where are you staying?"

"Down with Bunny Spencer-Wiley's people at Esher."

"And who, by the by, is Yankeedoodle?" Gerald asked, glancing towards the other boy.

"That's just it," Philip pointed out. "Yankeedoodle's a rum kid —an American, you know—but he isn't a bad sort, and he's been through it once before. They kidnapped him from somewhere in New York State. That's why he's over here now. His name's Hammerton. His father was supposed to be the richest man in the world, wasn't he, Yankeedoodle?"

"I guess he was," the other assented laconically.

"So you are the hero of the famous kidnapping case?" Gerald observed, with a sudden access of interest.

"Yes, sir," was the prompt reply. "They kept me prisoner up in the woods close on a week."

"That's why he's at school in England, you see," Philip explained. "His father's dead, and his mother sent him over here, thinking he'd be safe. Well, Bunny and I have put our heads together the last few days, and we ain't so sure."

"Kidnappers don't stand much chance on this side," Gerald assured them.

Philip leaned forward in his chair. He was obviously very much in earnest. "Mr. Jennerton," he confided, "there have, been Americans "

"Toughs," the other boy muttered.

"Down at Worsley. We've seen 'em hanging about the school. Three or four nights ago there was a burglary at Brown's—at least the room where Yankeedoodle and I sleep was broken into."

"What happened to you then?"

"We weren't there. The men were repairing some pipes outside, and they'd moved us to another room."

"Burglars, eh?" Gerald remarked thoughtfully. "Was anything stolen?"

"Not a thing," Philip replied. "It was this kid they were after. I'm jolly well sure of that."

"What did the Head say about it?"

"He wired for Yankeedoodle's guardian, who came down and gassed a lot, but laughed at the idea that they were anything but ordinary burglars."

"Who is this guardian of—er—Yankeedoodle's?" Gerald asked.

"His name's Howson—Major Howson. He's staying down with Bunny Spencer-Wiley's people too.

"He seems very good-natured—laughs and talks a great deal. He gave us both a sovereign tip to spend on ices and things today?but I don't like him—no more does Yankeedoodle."

"And now tell me why you think something horrible is going to happen to- night," Gerald invited.

"You'll think us a couple of funks, I'm afraid," Philip demurred, "but I'm pretty certain that one of those American chaps 'Ve saw down at Worsley was hanging around the grounds at Esher last night. Yankeedoodle saw him; so did I—and be hasn't alone either."

"Whom was he with?"

"Major Howson—the kid's guardian. They were strolling up and down one of the lawns at the back of the house. I wanted to keep Yankeedoodle out of sight, so we got Bunny to do an Indian stalk. He couldn't hear much of what they were saying, but they kept on talking about to-night and a car at some place on the Ripley Road. Bunny and I think they're fixing it up to cart him off somewhere."

"Have you mentioned this to Mr. Spencer-Wiley?" Gerald enquired.

"Bunny tried to give him a hint, but he only laughed. You see, Mr. Jennerton, all he'd do would be to send for the police, and the police never catch anybody, do they? We thought if we could get you interested, you might be able to get hold of these men."

"You are the quaintest clients I ever had," Gerald confessed. Philip moved a little uneasily in his chair. "We ain't funks," he declared, "but Yankeedoodle had a horrid time when they kidnapped him before."

"You're going up to the match, I suppose?" Gerald suggested, after a moment's reflection.

"Rather!" was the enthusiastic reply.

"Well, you meet me at the right-hand corner of the members' stand at tea time and I'll take you along to our tent. I'll make a few enquiries and tell you then whether I can do anything about it."

"Righto! We'll scoot for the stand directly they go in to tea.... I say, Mr. Jennerton."

"Well, my lad."

"It was your father who started this, wasn't it? It was he who taught you detecting?"

"In a sense, I suppose it was," Gerald agreed.

"We couldn't see him, could we?" the boy asked.

"Well, I don't know. I'll see if he's in."

Gerald strolled across to his father's room and opened the door.

"Dad," he announced from the threshold, "we have two new clients here who would like a word with you."

Mr. Jennerton, rosy-cheeked, bulky, carefully dressed, goodhumoured as usual, promptly made his appearance. He stared at the two boys in frank surprise.

"Sorry if we disturbed you, Mr. Jennerton," Philip apologised, looking up politely. "You see, it's been very interesting to talk to your son, but we thought we'd like to have just a glimpse of you. Yankeedoodle and I—that's the kid here—want to be detectives ourselves when we grow up."

"Awfully glad to meet you, Mr. Jennerton," the American boy said.

Mr. Jennerton sat down in the easy-chair and laughed softly.

"Clients, eh?" he observed. "What's the trouble?"

"It's something jolly serious, Mr. Jennerton," Philip confided,

"but I feel sure it will turn out all right now. Your son's going to make some enquiries for us."

Gerald opened the door. "Well, you mustn't be late for the match," he enjoined. "See you both at tea time, and then we'll have a word or two more about this matter."

The umpire had scarcely turned his face towards the pavilion at five o'clock that afternoon when two perspiring boys came hurrying up to Gerald.

"Here we are, Mr. Jennerton," Philip announced with satisfaction. "Hope you didn't mind our bringing Bunny," he went on, as a third boy made a somewhat tentative appearance. "He's not a bad kid, but he's a wolf at strawberries."

Arrived at the tent, the boys, with an unlimited supply of cake and strawberries before them, settled down to business, and light conversation was impossible.

Later on, however, in the first stages of repletion, Gerald asked a few questions.

"How long has Major Howson been your guardian?" he enquired of young Hammerton.

"About six months before I came to England," the boy replied.

"My mother met him in New York, and he kidded her that it would be a fine thing to send me over here to school."

"I see. I suppose he's a friend of the Spencer-Wileys too, as he's staying down there?"

"I don't believe he is," Philip intervened. "I believe Mr. Spencer-Wiley asked him because, if he hadn't, Yankeedoodle would have had to have stayed alone with him, and the kid wanted to be with the rest of us. I say, Mr. Jennerton—"

"Well?"

"Young Mr. Spencer-Wiley—Bunny's eldest brother—the one who's in the Foreign Office, you know—is awfully keen on knowing you. Would you speak to him when we go back to the coach?"

"Of course I will," Gerald assented. "I think I know his father, anyway. By the bye, what are they going to do with you this evening?"

Philip indulged in a little grimace. "We're going straight back to Esher," he answered. "They've got a lot of half grown-ups staying in the house and we're going to have a dance. I'd rather go to a show. Besides, it's such a lonely house at Esher—just the sort of place for them to get hold of Yankeedoodle in, if they're really after him—and 1 do believe they are, Mr. Jennerton. Are you going to try to help?"

"Very likely," Gerald promised. "There's the bell. I'll take you back and have a word with Spencer-Wiley."

The boys left the tent reluctantly. They made their way to the coach, and Spencer-Wiley—a young man slightly Gerald's junior, who was in the Foreign Office—expressed his satisfaction at the introduction which the boys effected.

"Awfully good of you to look after these lads," he remarked.

"You know you're a sort of hero to them."

Gerald was introduced to some more of the party and found several acquaintances. The boys parted with him later on with reluctance.

"Come down and have a dance with us to-night," young Spencer-Wiley suggested. "We're dining early—making a young people's party of it—seven-thirty, I think. If you can't get down to dine, come down later."

"Thank you very much," Gerald assented. "Probably after dinner, if you don't mind."

The Jennerton organisation was notably a perfect one. Two neatly typed reports lay upon Gerald's desk when he returned. His father glanced across at him enquiringly.

"The Hammerton boy's the goods anyhow," Gerald announced.

"Only son of the late William Hammerton, multimillionaire, estate valued at thirty-three millions, bulk of it left in trust for the lad, was kidnapped eighteen months ago, providing great sensation in all the American newspapers, rescued by huge operation on the part of the police, entrusted by mother to care of an Englishman, Major Howson, and sent to Worsley School. Word for word the boy's story, Governor."

"What about Howson?"

"A very colourless report," Gerald admitted. "Retired major, did some liaison work with the American Army during the war, and was invited to Washington, middle-aged, belongs to the Somerset Club, and is apparently impecunious, is sometimes sued for small sums by tradespeople, but nothing definite against him, plays golf occasionally, and frequents the cheaper places on the French coast."

"H'm!" Mr. Jennerton, Senior, observed. "What do you make of it all, Gerald?"

"I'm hanged if I know!" was the latter's thoughtful admission.

"But anyway, we can keep an eye on them. Young SpencerWiley has asked me to dine and dance to-night. If you wouldn't mind motoring down too we should soon be able to find out if there was anything wrong."

Mr. Jennerton nodded assent. "If those lads aren't mistaken about those Americans down at Worsley, the whole affair seems to me pretty fishy," he admitted.

Esher Hall was a very magnificent mansion, and Gerald found upon his arrival that the dance was not the impromptu affair he had imagined, but that the guests numbered several hundreds. He danced for an hour, after which time he went in search of his young friend, whom he found seated upon a high stool at a cleverly improvised bar.

"Don't touch the ices, sir—they're rotten," Philip warned him. "Go bald-headed for the fruit salad. I'll have some more myself, please," he added, pushing his plate across.

"Look here, young fellow," Gerald said, "I want you to point out this chap Howson to me."

"Righto! You really think they're after Yankeedoodle, Mr. Jennerton?" Philip asked eagerly between spoonfuls.

"There's just a chance they may be," Gerald admitted.

"But what about your father, Mr. Jennerton? Isn't he coming to help?"

"You don't trust me, eh, youngster?"

"It isn't that, sir," Philip explained apologetically, as he pushed aside his plate, "but you haven't had so much experience as he has, have you—We'd feel safer if both of you were there." Gerald smiled. "You're a mistrustful young devil," he declared.

"However, as a matter of fact, my father is outside." There was undoubted relief in the small boy's face.

"And now come along," Gerald continued. "I want you to find Howson, if he's anywhere about."

"I'm ready," Philip agreed, slipping off his stool. "He spends most of his time here, drinking whiskies and sodas, but to-night he seems to be hanging around the side door all the evening. I believe he's looking for those Americans. Yankeedoodle swears that he heard one of them a little time ago talking to a chauffeur, asking about the Portsmouth road. This way, Mr. Jennerton."

Gerald and his small companion searched for some time in vain. Finally, in one of the smaller rooms, they came across a man peering out of the window into the avenue.

"Here he is!" Philip exclaimed. "Major Howson, this is Mr. Jennerton. We were just talking about you."

Major Howson swung round abruptly. He appeared to be a man of some forty to forty-five years of age, high-complexioned, with a moderately good-humoured face and expression, but rather small eyes and a weak mouth.

"Glad to meet you, Mr. Jennerton," he said, with a marked absence of cordiality.

Gerald acknowledged the introduction perfunctorily. The major's appearance was certainly not prepossessing. His shirt, though well laundered, was a little frayed at the cuffs. His studs were imitation pearls, his patent- leather shoes were cracked with numerous varnishings. Impecuniosity clung to his exterior and his manner was distinctly uneasy.

"By the bye, where is my young ward?" Major Howson demanded presently, after the interchange of a few strained civilities.

"Oh, he's playing round," Philip replied. "He's got a pash for a little girl from the Priory. I expect he's sitting in a corner with her."

The major threw away his cigar. "Well," he said, "you'll excuse me. I must go back and dance with some of these children. See you later, Mr. Jennerton."

He departed and Gerald looked after him thoughtfully. "I don't fancy the fellow as a guardian, Philip," he confided.

"He's all right sometimes," was the boy's dubious comment.

"He does a very good trick with a handkerchief and a tennis racket. Until last night I rather liked him. Hope he gets it in the neck now, though. Where is your father, sir?"

"He's outside, looking around," Gerald replied. "I think, if you don't mind, youngster, I'll go and have a word with him." Gerald made his way into the garden and met his father near the courtyard. Mr. Jennerton appeared perturbed.

"The lads are right, anyway, Gerald," he confided, "as to there being some Americans around—toughs, I should call them too. One of them was walking up and down the avenue with that fellow Howson only quarter of an hour ago. I think you'd better go and have a word with Spencer-Wiley. Wait a moment, though. Here's one of them coming! Looks as though he were assigned to watch us."

Gerald swung around and suddenly accosted the man who had been loitering in the background.

"May I ask what your business is here?" Gerald enquired.

"What's that got to do with you?" was the brusque rejoinder.

"I belong to the house," Gerald lied, "and if I find a stranger hanging about I feel quite justified in asking his business." The man's manner became propitiatory. "Sure," he agreed. "If you're one of the folk at the house, that's different. See that." He unbuttoned his overcoat and touched a round badge attached to his vest.

"It see it," Gerald admitted. "What's it mean?"

"New York detective force," the man answered, dropping his voice a little. "I'm sent over to shadow a gang who are after that Hammerton kid. I'm hot on their trail down here. Know anything about it?"

"Not a thing. Do you mean the American boy who's staying with us?"

"I surely do. He's been kidnapped once before and the same gang are after him again. The Commissioner sent me over here to keep my eye on the lad."

"I see," Gerald observed quietly.

"I've got a mate here," the man went on. "All we want is to be let alone and we'll see the kid doesn't come to any harm. Pat Harwood, my name is. It was I who rounded up the gang last time."

"Are there any of them down here to-night?" Gerald asked.

"Nope. Nothing doing to-night. All the same, we have to know where the lad is. We shall be going as soon as the folks have gone to bed here. Good night, sir."

The man turned abrupdy away and disappeared around the corner of the courtyard. Gerald turned to his father.

"What do you make of that, Dad?" he enquired. Mr. Jennerton was suddenly very much alive. "Get hold of the boy first and lock him up where he can't be got at," he directed.

"Then ring up the police, in my name—the name of the firm. Esher Police Station, or Ripley, will do. Ask the sergeant to get in a car and come over here at once. I'll try to keep my eye on that fellow."

"You don't believe his story?" Gerald ventured.

"I know the New York police badge when I see it," was the swift rejoinder. "Hurry up!"

Gerald hastened into the house and discovered Philip waiting for him patiently.

"Where's Yankeedoodle?" the former demanded brusquely.

"Messing around somewhere."

"Let's find him quickly," Gerald insisted. "Come on! We've got to keep him in sight until the party's over."

"Have you discovered anything, sir?"

"Looks rather like it," Gerald admitted, "Come on!"

They began their search a little breathlessly—Gerald himself disturbed by a distinct premonition of evil. Nowhere could they discern any sign of Yankeedoodle. His small fair-headed companion from the Priory was wandering about disconsolately. Philip hurried across to her, asked a few questions, and came back with a scared expression upon his face.

"I say, sir," he anounced, "she says that Major Howson came up and took Yankeedoodle away. What an ass I was not to have stayed with the kid!"

"Did he say where they were going?"

"Something about showing him the guns while there was no one down in the gun room, she thought."

"Do you know the way?"

"I think I can find it. Come on, sir!"

They lost their way twice but eventually arrived at a long stone corridor.

"Here we are!" Philip cried in triumph. "It's the last door on the right."

They reached it at the double. Gerald tried the handle. It was locked on the inside.

"Never mind, sir," Philip shouted. "This other door leads into the courtyard."

They raced to the end of the corridor. There were bolts to be drawn, a chain unfastened and a key turned. Afterwards they stepped out into a spacious courtward, where a great motor-car was dimly to be seen in the half light. There were two men inside, one of them holding something whose struggles were clearly visible under a rug. The car started with a roar, and dashed out of the gate. A man who had been standing by its side turned and walked back towards the open gun-room window.

"Stay here and see which way they turn, Philip," Gerald called out. "I'll be back in a second." He sprang towards the drive, coming face to face with the loiterer. It was Major Howson. "What have you done with that boy?" he demanded.

The Major shrank back in consternation. In an instant Gerald's fist shot out and Yankeedoodle's guardian went down like a log. A chauffeur came hurrying up.

"What's all this trouble about, sir?" he enquired.

"Never you mind," Gerald replied. "You'll know when the police come. Help me get my car out."

The chauffeur looked at him more closely. "Are you the gentleman who was talking—yes, you are," he broke off abruptly.

"The older gentleman you were with, he's got it bad."

"What do you mean?" Gerald exclaimed. "Where is he?"

The chauffeur led the way and Gerald followed. There was a little group at the entrance to the courtyard, standing around Mr. Jennerton, Senior, who had apparently just scrambled to his feet. Across the avenue young Spencer- Wiley was hurrying in their direction.

"Anything wrong?"

"An American gang," Mr. Jennerton, Senior, confided a little faintly. "They've got hold of that lad. They've gone off in a Bentley—LX 3629. Will you telephone to Ripley and Guildford to stop them?" he added, turning to Spencer-Wiley. "Come on, Gerald!"

"Are you all right, sir?" the latter enquired. His father nodded.

"I'll ring up the police, of course," Spencer-Wiley interposed.

"Shall I come along with you, Mr. Jennerton?"

"You see to the police," Gerald directed. "We'll let you know what happens. Let's go, Dad!"

Gerald thundered down the Portsmouth Road with dimmed headlights, but at a pace which provoked shouts and remonstrances from every passing vehicle. They flashed through Cobham and raced past the lake on the way to Ripley. Then Mr. Jennerton touched his son lightly upon the arm.

"Slow up here," he enjoined. "We'll call at the police station."

"Is it worth while, sir?" Gerald asked regretfully. "We've been doing sixty-five, and we ought to be up to them directly."

"The police station is on the right there," was Mr. Jennerton's sole reply.

Gerald slackened speed and eventually drew up with a little sigh. His father descended.

"I shall telephone to Scotland Yard," he announced.

Gerald looked down the long, level stretch of road impatiently. The excitement of the chase was upon him, and his foot was aching to be once more upon the accelerator. When his father reappeared, however, he came out in leisurely fashion. He was accompanied by a sergeant.

"Old friend of mine here, Sergeant Clowson," Mr. Jennerton remarked. "They only got through from Esher while I was there, and the Sergeant says that a score of cars have passed during the last twenty minutes."

"Any quantity of them, sir," the sergeant confirmed. "There's a dance on at Guildford to-night. Anything more I can do for you, Mr. Jennerton?"

"Nothing at all, thank you," the latter assured him.

The sergeant took his leave. Gerald pressed the starting button. Mr. Jennerton suddenly came to a decision.

"Turn round," he directed. "We'll go back."

Gerald stared at him in amazement.

"Turn round," Mr. Jennerton repeated firmly. "I'll explain as we go along."

"But I say!" Gerald protested. "We know they're ahead of us. We can't give it up like this. An old Bentley, too, you said their car was. They couldn't live with us on the hills."

"I'll explain as we go along," Mr. Jennerton insisted. Gerald swung across the road without further comment and turned back towards London. His silence and his manner, however, were alike significant.

"See here, Gerald," his father continued earnestly, "this gang aren't fools. They turned out of the gates in this direction with all lights flashing, yet they have been hanging about so long they must know that your car could overtake them at any minute. There's a catch in it, I'm sure."

"But what else is there to do except follow them?" Gerald demanded.

"Find out the catch," his father replied. "So far as following is concerned, that's a blind business, and it isn't necessary. I've spoken to Henslow at the Yard, and before another hour has passed, the whole of the South Coast will be blocked against them.

I don't think it would matter," Mr. Jennerton went on thoughtfully, "if we took the Brighton road or the Portsmouth road—I don't think if we travelled a hundred miles an hour we should come up with them."

"What do you propose, then?"

"I'm just thinking out myself what I should do if I were the kidnapper."

About a mile from Esher, Mr. Jennerton spoke after a somewhat prolonged silence.

"Turn to the right here," he enjoined.

"It's only a lane," Gerald objected.

"Never mind."

Gerald switched on the headlights and made his way cautiously along the narrow thoroughfare for about a mile. Then his father stopped him once more.

"You can turn at the corner there," he pointed out quietly.

"Let's go back again."

Gerald obeyed orders in mute but resentful silence. They regained the main road, but his father waved him across it, and they plunged once more into the darkness of a by-road. Soon after they had rounded the first bend Mr. Jennerton uttered an exclamation of interest.

"What's that?" he exclaimed.

There was no doubt about what it was—a Bentley limousine with no lights burning, deserted, with the off front wheel in the ditch. They came to a standstill and both alighted.

"You see," Mr. Jennerton explained rapidly, "they did what was after all the most natural thing in the world: they left Esher Hall in a Bentley car, with the number showing clearly, hoping we'd chase it to the coast. What they really did was to take the first secluded lane they could find, pull up, abandon the car and change into another one. You can see where it was drawn up waiting for them."

"You're right," Gerald admitted, with awakening interest.

"This lane leads out to the road from London to Weybridge. They could get on any of the main roads lower down."

"Yes, but they wouldn't do it," Mr. Jennerton replied. "They'd know we should have those blocked."

"Well, you guessed their first move," Gerald said. "What about their second?"

"That's a more difficult matter," his father confessed. "I'll bet by this time they're pretty well back in London."

Gerald lighted a cigarette. "Well?"

Mr. Jennerton opened the door of the Bentley car. "We're going to search this old vehicle to the extent of ripping the cushions up," he declared. "They left her in a hurry, I can see that— license holder and name plate both torn off—but if they've only dropped a handkerchief it might help. Have you got an electric torch?"

Gerald produced one from the pocket of his car. With it in his hand, Mr. Jennerton entered the limousine.

At about half-past three in the morning, the soi-disant Mr. Pat Harwood—better known as Slippery Sam to his friends of the Bowery, and to the police of New York—was awakened by the sudden turning on of all the lights in his bedroom. He opened his eyes sleepily and then sat up with a start. The hand which crept under his pillow came away empty. He looked into the smiling face of Inspector Henslow of Scotland Yard.

"Is this a nightmare?" he exclaimed, glancing around at several other sinister figures.

The Inspector signed to one of his subordinates. The man in the bed yielded his wrists and scrutinised disconsolately the tokens of his enslavement.

"What's it for?" he demanded.

"You're wanted on three charges in New York—extradition all arranged for," the Inspector replied. "At the present moment we want the boy. Where is he?"

"Next room," said the captive.

Gerald slipped past the others, unbolted the communicating doors, turned up the lights, and approaching the bed, shook the lightly clad figure concealed under the bedclothes.

"Wake up, young man," he enjoined.

Yankeedoodle opened first one eye and then the other. As he recognized Gerald a broad grin slowly transformed his face.

"You all right?" Gerald asked anxiously.

"Sure!" the boy answered. "They doped me good too, but I spat some of it out and shammed. I was pretty well scared but I guessed you'd be along presently."

"How did you get the envelope?"

"Well," the boy explained, "as soon as we got in that lane there was another car all fixed up and waiting for us. The chauffeur had brought two notes, which that beast who was holding me opened and read. One of the envelopes, with his address on it, had blown on to the floor, and when he got up to speak to the chauffeur, leaning out of the window, although he had me by the collar all the time, I was just able to reach it and stuff it down behind the cushions. When he turned round again, he tore up the letters and the other envelope without noticing there was one gone. After that I pretended to be asleep, so that they shouldn't give me any more dope. I knew you'd be along pretty soon. . . . Say, Mr. Jennerton, whatever Philip does, I guess I've made up my mind now."

"What about?" Gerald asked.

"Why I don't care if I've got millions enough to buy this little old island of yours," Yankeedoodle declared happily—"when I grow up I'm going to be a detective like you."</story>