<story title="THE GREAT BEAR" date="1929">
Jennerton had a fancy to call at the Clover Club on his way home one evening to partake of a cocktail in a more Bohemian atmosphere than that of his own sedate and almost austere club. The little bar, with its oak- panelled walls and daring sketches, its deep easy-chairs, and tiny grillroom opening out behind, was almost deserted. There was one girl seated upon a stool at the counter, an untasted cocktail in front of her, her head supported between her hands. Jennerton discreetly seated himself some distance away, demanded a dry Martini, and lit a cigarette. At the sound of his voice, the girl turned around, and without even glancing towards her, he was conscious of the interest. of her observation. The Clover Club was Bohemian without a doubt, but by no means promiscuous. Even a young woman leaning over the bar and drinking a cocktail alone might be regarded without suspicion. Consequently in a moment or two he permitted himself to look at her more closely, and their eyes met. He felt a vague sense of recognition. She smiled at him slightly.

"You're Mr. Jennerton, aren't you?" she asked.

"I am," he assented, "and I am sure that I have met you somewhere."

"You met me a few weeks ago at Lawrence Dane's studio," she reminded him. "Would it bore you very much to bring your cocktail over to the settee there, and talk to me for a moment?"

"I should like to immensely," he agreed. "I often think what idiots we are to crouch over a bar when these chairs are so comfortable."

She led the way without further remark, and they seated themselves side by side in a retired corner. The barman placed a small table before them and produced some dishes of salted almonds and chips.

"I dare say you have forgotten my name," she said. "It is Estelle Drayton."

"Of course I remember all about you now," he declared. "You do miniatures."

"And you hunt criminals."

He smiled.

"I hope our tastes," he ventured, "are not so far apart as our pursuits."

She seemed scarcely to have heard his gallant speech. The same expression which he had surprised upon her face when he had first entered had clouded her features again. He realised that she was a very beautiful girl in mental distress. She wore her smooth black hair brushed straight back from her forehead in the severest Italian fashion—a method becoming enough in its way, but rendering even more noticeable the pallor of her cheeks, the lines of trouble under her disturbed, deep-set eyes, the natural scarlet of her lips. Of course he remembered her. She had been the outstanding figure in that crowded studio party.

"Mr. Jennerton," she confessed, "I am in trouble. Just when you came in I was wondering whether I could find the courage to come to you, or some one like you, or to go to the police."

"Of course," he told her gently, "it depends upon what your trouble is. The police are always safe. They are always there as a last resource. When you have once placed a matter in their hands, however, you have no further control over it. Consult me, if you will, unofficially at first. I will give you my honest advice. I will try to point out whatever I think it is best for you to do."

She smiled at him in obvious relief.

"You sound so delightfully human," she murmured.

"I am human enough," he rejoined, looking at her empty glass and summoning the barman, "to insist upon a second cocktail."

The order was promptly given and she drew a little nearer to him.

"You are just the sort of person I can talk to," she confided.

"Please listen. First of all, I am engaged to be married, and I am very much in love with the man."

"You start," he pronounced sombrely, "with bad news."

"No gallantries, please," she begged. "This is very serious. My young man's name is Grandlett—Arnold Grandlett. You may have heard of him. He has written a book of travels, a treatise on mining engineering, and one or two other technical articles about metals."

"I have heard of him often," Jennerton assured her.

"Well, then, listen please," she went on; "have you ever heard of a company—oh, you must have—it's quite well known— the Kopthill Concessions?"

"Often. I held some shares in it once—only there seemed so much uncertainty about the whole affair that I sold out."

"That's just the point," she agreed eagerly. "There always has been a great deal of uncertainty, so far as I can gather. They own thousands and thousands of acres somewhere in Africa, which should be terribly productive, but they are always in trouble. They find gold, and then lose it again, and once they thought they had one of the finest diamond mines in the world, but after a few months there were no more diamonds. Six or seven months ago, the company decided to send an absolutely reputable person out to make a report. They asked Arnold to go and he consented. He has been away five months, hard at work, and all that time I have only heard from him twice."

"I suppose he was busy and moving about continually," Jennerton suggested.

"It wasn't that at all. The understanding was that he should not write home, except one or two purely formal reports as to the nature of his work to the directors, and a few personal letters, which were subject to censorship. You see, there are two million pounds' worth of shares in the company on the market, and Sir Matthew Bridgeman, who is the chairman, was very anxious that the value of the shares should not be disturbed one way or the other by vague rumours. Arnold was to complete his investigations, to bring his report back with him, and to present it for the first time at the annual meeting of the company—which is on Friday, by the bye. Sir Matthew's idea was that no one—not even the directors—were to profit in any way by any foreknowledge as to the nature of that report."

"I understand," Jennerton murmured. "That all seems quite sensible and very much to Sir Matthew's credit. As a rule, these sort of things leak out, and the wrong person makes a great deal of money."

"Well, Arnold arrived home on Monday evening," Estelle Drayton continued. "I met him at Waterloo. I thought he looked rather worried, but otherwise he was quite well, and certainly he was just as pleased to see me as I had hoped for, and I looked forward to a wonderful few days. We talked for two or three minutes, and then, when he was trying to collect his luggage— we were going to have it sent around to his roomst and go straight out to dinner—a man came up, and touched him on the shoulder, and said something to him in a low tone, which I didn't hear. Arnold asked me to excuse him, and went off to where another man was waiting farther down the platform. They all three walked off together, and I turned around to tell the porter about some of the smaller things. When I had finished, they were out of sight. I waited there for an hour and not one of them returned. I have not seen or heard from Arnold since."

"Great heavens!" Jennerton exclaimed. "Miss Drayton, you're not pulling my leg or anything of that sort, are you?"

"Do I seem like it?" she rejoined bitterly. "Do you think I feel like it? I simply haven't known what to do. I looked after his luggage, which was sent on to his rooms—except a black portfolio which he had handed to me when he left the train— but he has never been there, nor have they heard anything of him. I went home, thinking there might be a message there. Not a word. Arnold just walked off into those little wisps of fog at the end of the station on Monday night, and not a whisper, not a telephone message, has come from him up to this moment."

"What about the portfolio you spoke of?" Jennerton asked.

"That I locked up in my studio," she told him. "It is there now."

Jennerton reflected for a few moments. Certainly, it did not seem like a case of voluntary disappearance.

"What were the men like with whom he went away?" he enquired.

"The man who was waiting in the background was quite well dressed—a man of about middle age, clean-shaven, the sort of person one might meet anywhere. He had evidently dressed early for the evening, for he was wearing a white silk muffler and a silk hat. The man who came and tapped him on the shoulder didn't seem to me quite the same type. He might have been a secretary or a superior servant."

"Should you know them again?"

"I think so. I don't forget people easily."

She threw away a cigarette and lit another with nervous fingers. He watched her closely. She was very attractive, very highly strung, and to air appearance terribly in earnest. There were pools of anxiety in her dark eyes, a little quiver of her lips even in repose.

"Was he expecting any one at the station?" Jennerton queried.

"I don't think he was expecting even me. I had to go to the office of the steamer to know what time the boat train was in."

"You haven't been to the police or anything?"

"I haven't even rung up the offices of the company. You see, Arnold is very peculiar. He hates a fuss, he hates being talked about. He is very secretive in many ways. I have felt somehow or other that what he would like best would be for me to just wait. He has been through no end of adventures and he generally comes out all right. He knows how to take care of himself as a rule. That is why I haven't done a thing. I simply couldn't wait any longer though, and when I saw you come in I felt I must speak to you."

"Has he any relations in London, or intimate friends?"

"Not one that I know of; but what difference could that make? I am his most intimate friend. We were to have been married next month. If he were free to go where he wanted to, surely he would have come to me."

Jennerton broke off for a moment to exchange greetings with a passing acquaintance. She waited impatiently, clasping and unclasping her fingers, until he resumed his seat.

"The motive is the thing we want to get at," he remarked.

"We must remember that Grandlett's mission had been one of tremendous importance. Do you know whether the report he brought home was favourable to the company or not?"

"Of course I don't," she expostulated. "I'm the last person he would ever think of dropping a hint to. As a matter of fact," she added, "the only two letters I had from him didn't come direct. They came from the office of the company, and I am sure that they had been opened."

Jennerton glanced at his watch. It was five minutes past seven.

"Will you excuse me whilst I telephone for a few minutes," he begged.

She nodded, and he made his way to one of the two telephone boxes in the outer hall. It was a quarter of an hour before he returned, and he was looking, as he felt, more puzzled than ever.

"I have been trying to speak to one of the directors at the offices of the Kopthill Concessions," he confided. "So far as I can gather, the head clerk, who was in charge there, understood that Grandlett had been expected on Tuesday morning, and since then they have been cabling and writing in every direction. The price of the shares hasn't changed, however. That's something."

"What has that got to do with it?" she asked.

He hesitated.

"Well, supposing some one had got hold of him and he had been robbed of his papers," Jennerton explained, "the object would have been to have found out from his report in what sort of a state the property was, and to have either bought or sold the shares. Nothing of that sort seems to have happened, however. I'll go down to Waterloo Station presently and make a few enquiries. In the meantime, Miss Drayton, I don't mind confessing that you've set me rather a problem."

"Well, it's a comfort to share it with some one," she sighed.

"It's been worrying me to death for days."

Jennerton glanced at the clock.

"Are you on the telephone where you live?" he enquired. She nodded.

"I am sharing a flat studio in Chelsea with another girl. We had the telephone put in a few weeks ago."

"I suggest then that you ring up and ask if there is any news, let them know where you are, and that afterwards you have some dinner with me in the little grillroom here. We needn't change or anything, and with an hour or two together, I may be able to make up my mind how to act."

"That's very kind of you," she accepted gratefully. "I'll go and telephone at once."

"And I'll wash and order dinner. We'll meet here in a quarter of an hour." . . .

In rather less than that time, Jennerton re-entered the bar. The room was empty, save for a young gentleman of Semitic appearance who was seated upon one of the stools. Jennerton strolled around for a minute or two, glanced through an evening paper, discovering from the financial column the price of Kopthill Concessions, and finally ordered a cocktail. There was no sign of his prospective dinner companion. He glanced at the clock. Half an hour had passed since he had left her.

"Do you know where Miss Drayton is?" he asked the barman.

The man looked at him in apparent surprise.

"Miss Drayton was called up on the telephone directly you went out, sir, and she left the Club almost immediately afterwards."

Jennerton stared at him.

"I don't think she could have done that," he remarked. "She had just agreed to dine with me here."

"I saw her go out, sir," the man persisted. The other occupant of the bar leaned forward from his stool.

"Excuse me, sir," he said, "but if you're enquiring for Miss Drayton, she drove away in a taxicab just as I came in." Jennerton nodded his acknowledgments.

"You are sure she didn't leave any message for me?" he asked the barman.

"None at all, sir."

Jennerton made his way outside to where the commissionaire was standing. In a very few minutes he was fully assured of the fact that Miss Drayton had not only left the place without leaving any message, but also without any apparent intention of returning. She had effected a disappearance from the Clover Club as singular as the disappearance of Arnold Grandlett from Waterloo Station.

Jennerton, without disturbing the somnolent doorkeeper, studied the names painted upon the blackboard in the entrance hall of the new stone block of flats, discovered that Miss Drayton and Miss Aimie Mordant occupied an apartment upon the top floor, and mounted there by the automatic lift. He rang the bell and waited. There was no reply. He tried again, without result. Suddenly a thin thread of illumination which was visible through the fanlight, disappeared, came on again, and once more disappeared. Jennerton stared at it in surprise. It was as though some one were signalling. He pushed the bell the third time without any answer to his summons. Then he stepped back to the lift, descended to the ground floor, and called the porter from the office.

"I have just been ringing the bell of Miss Drayton's flat," he confided. "I feel sure that some one is in there, but I can get no reply."

"Miss Drayton is in herself, sir," the man announced. "She came in a taxi about half an hour ago."

"Have you a pass key?"

"Yes, I've got a pass key all right," the man admitted doubtfully, "but I don't know about using it. The young lady's probably gone to bed and doesn't want to be disturbed with callers."

"Look here," Jennerton explained earnestly, "I'm not an ordinary caller. The gentleman to whom Miss Drayton is engaged has disappeared, and there are some very singular incidents in connection with his disappearance. I am a private detective and Miss Drayton has engaged me to help her. She was summoned back here in a most mysterious fashion and I am convinced that there is something wrong in her apartment. If you will open the door with your pass key, I give you my word that I will take all the blame, that I will recompense you for whatever may happen—find you another place if you lose this one—and ask you to accept this," he concluded, passing over a treasury note.

"I don't want paying for doing my duty, sir," the man declared, accepting the note all the same. "I'll come up and ring, anyway."

They mounted to the fifth floor again and pressed the bell. The place remained shrouded in solemn darkness. The porter handled his pass key doubtfully.

"I don't like it, sir," he demurred, turning on the electric light by the side of the door. "You see there's no entrance hall to these flats—no privacy, so to speak. The doors open right into a kind of studio living room."

"I promise," Jennerton repeated impressively, "that you shall get into no trouble."

The man still hesitated. Then the key slipped suddenly from his fingers and fdl with a datter upon the stone floor.

"God!" he exclaimed, starting back. "What's that?"

Jennerton, too, stooped down. From underneath the door came a thin stream of some sort of liquid. In the semi-obscurity it might have been anything. As it gained in volume, however, it lost its first sinister appearance. It was apparently nothing more than water, but it was sufficient to induce the doorkeeper to act. He picked up the key, thrust it into the lock, and pushed the door. The two men stood upon the threshold.

At first they could see little, for the room was large and lofty. The porter, however, after a moment's groping along the wall, found the switch, and they looked in upon a scene of wild disorder. A great vase of flowers was lying upon the floor, the water from which had trickled in a tortuous stream towards the door. Boxes and trunks, rifled of their contents, lay about in all sorts of confusion. The curtains from the two beds had been torn down, and the bedding cut to pieces. The drawers from a wardrobe had been thrown into the middle of the room and emptied out, apparently at haphazard. At first there seemed not a soul upon the premises. Then there came the sound of violent tapping, and the fainter sound of voices. The porter led the way towards a distant corner.

"There's a kitchen here, sir," he explained. "That's where they are—locked in it, I should say." He opened another stout, oaken door. Estelle Drayton, dishevelled, and with a furious gleam in her eyes, staggered into the room, followed by another young woman. The former recognized Jennerton with a cry of exultation.

"Quick!" she exclaimed. "Let's go after them! They haven't left more than ten minutes."

"Who?" Jennerton demanded.

"Two men. I don't know who they were. They rang the bell here. Aimie was alone, working. They said that I had invited them to see some miniatures. As soon as they got inside, they asked Aimie to telephone for me if I were out. She found me at the Clover Club. I rushed back. I don't know why, but I was terrified—and I came too late."

"What do you mean—too late?"

"The portfolio which Arnold gave me at the station," she cried. "It's gone! They must have found it at the bottom of my mattress. Arnold trusted me with it and it's gone!"

"Did you see these two men?" Jennerton asked the stupefied doorkeeper.

"I saw them come up, sir," the man replied. "I can't say that I saw them go out. I was answering the telephone when some one came downstairs—might very well have been them. They were well-spoken gentlemen enough when they arrived. I should have sent them up anywhere."

"Were they rough with you girls?" Jennerton enquired.

"They were as polite as burglars could be, who meant to have their own way," Miss Drayton acknowledged. "They just carried Aimie in here, tied a gag in her mouth, and locked the door. They did the same thing to me when I arrived, only I was able to get the gag out at once. We've been shouting for at least twenty minutes, but there's not a chance of making any one hear. We're on the top floor, and there's only a skylight. All that we could do was to keep turning the light on and off, hoping it would show through the fan. There's a switch in the kitchen there."

"Do you know what was in the portfolio which they stole?" Jennerton asked, drawing Estelle Drayton on one side.

"I can guess," she answered miserably.

The doorkeeper, who had been looking helplessly around, had a sudden inspiration.

"What about telephoning to the police station, young ladies?" he suggested.

Estelle Drayton glanced enquiringly at Jennerton. He shrugged his shoulders.

"Just as you like. It is entirely a private affair, though, and I should think it would be absolutely useless."

"What are we to do then?" she demanded.

"Tidy up, you and your friend, and come and have dinner at the Clover Club," he proposed. "We'll talk the matter over calmly. The portfolio has gone, and that's the end of it, and if it contains what I suppose it did, there isn't one chance in a thousand that you'll get it in time to prevent mischief. I don't think the police would be able to help, anyhow."

"Nothing more that I can do, then, ladies?" the hall porter enquired.

"Nothing except fetch a taxicab," Jennerton replied, as he followed him towards the door. "I'll be downstairs waiting for you both, Miss Drayton."

The diner-`-trois promised to be a great success. Whilst the oysters were being opened, however, Jennerton asked Estelle a question.

"Why didn't you leave word for me that you'd gone back to your flat?"

She looked at him in surprise.

"But I did," she assured him. "I left word with the barman." Jennerton excused himself and made his way to the bar. The attendant, who was pretending to be busy with his accounts, obeyed his summons unwillingly.

"Why didn't you give me the young lady's message?" Jennerton demanded sternly.

"I forgot it, sir."

"How much did it cost the young gentleman you were talking to when I came in, to make you forget it?"

The barman was embarrassed. His manner was half apologetic, half defiant.

"Couple of quid, sir."

Jennerton drew a five-pound note from his pocket.

"I'm not complaining," he said. "It was a perfectly fair deal. Here's twice as much for you to tell me the name of the little man, and what he does in life?"

"Name of Foa, sir," was the unhesitating reply—"Mr. Sidney Foa. He belongs to a firm of private enquiry agents, I believe. He was asking about Miss Drayton just before you came in—wanted to know if she was the young lady who was engaged to a Mr. Grandlett."

Jennerton handed across the note and rejoined his two guests.

"Fellow seems to have forgotten all about it," he announced.

"He admits that you left a message, though. A dry Chablis with the oysters, Henry, and a bottle of Cliquot '19 to follow."

"Burglars every day for me!" Miss Aimie exclaimed, finishing her cocktail.

Towards the middle of the following morning, an augustlooking gentleman was shown into Jennerton's office, upon whose card was inscribed the name of Sir Matthew Bridgeman.

"We have not met before," the latter said, with genial condescension, "but you probably know me by name. I am the chairman of the Kopthill Concessions Trust." Jennerton rose to his feet and personally ushered him to a chair. His prospective client was distinctly interesting. He wore the neat but old-fashioned clothes of a past generation. He might very well have been a member of the Stock Exchange of the early sixties, with a villa at Surbiton, a taste for growing orchids, and a palate for old port. He had side whiskers, a flowing cravat, a benevolent but convincing manner.

"I have been advised to consult you, Mr. Jennerton," he began, "with regard to a somewhat singular situation which has arisen. Shall I explain?"

"Please do."

"The Board of Directors, of which I am the chairman," Sir Matthew went on, "have for some time felt that a certain mystery existed with regard to their properties in Central Africa. It was accordingly decided that we should send out there to make special investigations an exceedingly clever young man, who is not only a mining engineer, but a prospector, and a shrewd mineralogist. His name is Arnold Grandlett. He has spent some five months in Africa and he arrived home during the last few days."

"He brought you a good report, I trust," Jennerton ventured politely.

"There we come to the point," was the grave rejoinder. "It has always been my opinion—an opinion unshared, I regret to say, by every one of my fellow directors—that the information brought home by this young man, whether favourable or unfavourable to the company, should not be divulged even to us until the Annual Meeting of shareholders, which is due to be held to- morrow. In case you are inexperienced in such matters, Mr. Jennerton, I may add that this was to give every member of the company, small shareholder or large, an equal opportunity of either making a profit or cutting a loss. You follow me?"

"Perfectly," Jennerton admitted. "It seems a very honourable course of action, although I should imagine a little unusual."

"Well, however that may be," Sir Matthew continued, "I sent a wireless to the young man, telling him not to report himself until half an hour before the meeting, which is to be held in Pinner's Hall to-morrow afternoon. His ship arrived four days ago and I have every reason to believe that he found his way safely to London, and as the price of the shares had remained unchanged up till this morning, I felt no doubt that he was obeying instructions which I sent to him by letter to Southampton and keeping out of every one's way. This morning, however, an entirely new situation has presented itself. The shares, which have been standing at between twenty-six and twentyeight shillings for the last six months, began to fall the moment the House opened. My broker tells me that they have been and are subject to one of the most determined 'bear' attacks ever known. The result is, naturally, that large blocks of the shares are coming on offer apart from the speculative selling. A quarter of an hour ago, their price was twelve shillings. At the present moment it is probably about ten."

"What do you deduce from this?" Jennerton asked.

"The fundamental fact is obvious and serious enough," Sir Matthew explained. "Grandlett has evidently found our property overvalued, and its prospects bad. The corollary to that, however, is even more serious. That information, if it belonged to any one, belonged to us. Either Grandlett has broken faith with us and decided to make a fortune for himself, or he has fallen into evil hands, and his report has been stolen." Jennerton was silent for several moments. The situation was not without its embarrassments.

"Your visit is singular in one respect, Sir Matthew," he confided. "I am already engaged on behalf of another client in endeavouring to solve the mystery of Mr. Grandlett's disappearance."

"By whom?" Sir Matthew demanded.

"I think I may tell you without committing a breach of confidence," Jennerton decided—"by Miss Drayton, the young lady to whom he is about to be married. She met him at the station. He was called away to speak to some one, and he never returned. He handed to her, when he descended from the Pullman, a black leather portfolio. After his disappearance, she took it back to her studio with her, and locked it up. Last night her rooms were burgled, and the black portfolio stolen. The attack upon your shares this morning is apparently the result."

"Good God!" Sir Matthew gasped. "And what about Grandlett?"

"She has not seen or heard of him since he left her on the platform at Waterloo. I have had half a dozen men searching for him since last night. If I have no news within twenty-four hours, the affair must go into the hands of the police. It is too serious a case for me."

"Do you think that he has been murdered?" Sir Matthew demanded.

Jennerton hesitated for a moment.

"If you ask me my honest opinion," he pronounced, "I don't think anything of the sort has happened to him."

"You believe that he is a rogue then?"

"I am almost sure that he is not."

Sir Matthew fidgeted in his seat.

"What do you think then?" he insisted brusquely. "Consider my position for a moment. I am holding two hundred and fifty thousand Kopthill shares, which cost me anything from eighteen to twenty-five shillings. With every tick of the clock they are moving on to the dust heap. That's what comes of trying to be honest on the Stock Exchange, Mr. Jennerton. If I had ordered Grandlett to send me a special report, as I had a right to do, or to have come straight to my house on his arrival in England, I should, at any rate, have been prepared for this disaster. Now some one else has got hold of him by fair means or foul, the truth has become known twenty-four hours before it was due, and we others are left—left to be ruined."

"It won't be so bad as that, I hope, Sir Matthew," Jennerton ventured.

Sir Matthew rose to his feet. There were tired lines about his face, a queer light burning in his eyes.

"Perhaps not," he admitted. "I have resources, it is true, but a loss such as this is one which few men, even in the City of London, could meet without disaster. Since you are already engaged upon this case," he added, "I cannot propose myself as a client, but if you should hear any news of Grandlett "

"You shall know it as soon as the young lady I am representing," Jennerton promised.

Sir Matthew took his leave. Out of curiosity, Jennerton went to the telephone and rang up a friend who was on the Stock Exchange. A junior member of the firm answered him.

"Is it true," Jennerton enquired, "that there is a great slump in Kopthills?"

"My God," was the agitated reply, "I am the only one of the firm left here! They are all in the House. Biggest debacle we've known for years. Some special information's got out twentyfour hours too soon, a report from a fellow who's been prospecting on the property for the last five months. The whole affair seems to have been a swindle. The shares were at twentyeight or twenty- nine yesterday—even touched thirty-two once; to-day I'll sell you as many as you like for ten shillings."

"Thanks," Jennerton replied. "I'm not a speculator." At seven o'clock that evening, Jennerton found Estelle Drayton seated at the bar of the Clover Club, inscrutable as ever. Her dark eyes questioned him as he took the stool by her side, but she said nothing.

"Sorry," he reported. "Absolutely no news."

"I scarcely expected any," she admitted. "Tell me, is it because of what they found in his portfolio that the shares have dropped so?"

"I'm afraid there's no doubt about that," he assented. They drank a cocktail together in silence.

"Miss Drayton," Jennerton asked, "was this portfolio, or whatever it was, locked?"

"It was locked all right," she replied, "but any one could easily cut round and open it. It was an ancient black leather affair with pockets. Arnold has had it for years. It has his name and address on a brass plate."

"Exactly why did you take charge of it?"

"This is just what happened," she explained. "You know how short of porters they were. Arnold was helping the conductor to take his things out of the car, and he passed it to me so as to have his hands free. Then that young man came and tapped him on the shoulder, and he hurried off."

"Shows we don't have to go outside London for adventure," Jennerton observed gloomily. "Stay and dine with me, Miss Drayton. I have told them to ring me up here if there's any news."

"There will be no news," she sighed, "but I'll stay if you like." Jennerton called a waiter and gave an order. Then, with a word of excuse to his companion, he hurried off to speak to his stockbroker friend who was seated upon a lounge at the other end of the room.

"I rang you up this morning, Charles," he said.

"About those Kopthill Concessions shares, wasn't it? I hope you haven't got any?"

"Sold my few some time ago," Jennerton confided. "I have a fancy to go to the meeting to-morrow, though. How can I get there?"

"Buy a share," the other suggested. "The meeting's at three o'clock. Call at my office at two-thirty, and I'll fill your pockets with certificates for a five-pound note." Jennerton considered for a moment.

"Charles," he confided, "I am going to make a damned fool of myself. What price do you suppose Kopthill Concessions will be to-morrow morning?"

"Pretty well any price you like to offer," was the terse reply.

"Three-and-sixpence—half-a-crown—anything like that, I should think."

"All right. So long as they're rubbish price, buy me a thousand. I'll be able to swagger at the meeting then."

"You're not serious?"

"I am."

"You don't know anything, by any chance?" the stockbroker exclaimed, with a sudden burst of eagerness.

"Not a damned thing," Jennerton hastened to assure him. "So far as regards any information I have, the company's rotten."

"If you're feeling that way," the other went on, "I've got some Zuzu Gold Mines, and a very much watered tin proposition, which doesn't seem to make a hit with the public." Jennerton shook his head.

"You can keep the rest of your rubbish," he declared. "I want to be sure of getting in at the meeting to-morrow."

"It's only right to warn you," the stockbroker confided, "that a copy of the actual report is going around. The whole affair has been a swindle from beginning to end. That fellow Grandlett got back a few nights ago, and he's the best and straightest judge of a property who ever went to Africa."

"I know," Jennerton agreed, "but bad though the thing may be, I think it is possible that there may be a little reaction. If there isn't, I don't care at that price."

"God bless you!" the stockbroker exclaimed, taking out his pocketbook and making a note. "I wish we had more clients like you. They nearly all clamour for sound things, curse them!" . . .

Estelle Drayton welcomed him back to the bar.

"What have you been doing with the distinguished looking stranger?" she enquired.

"Buying Kopthill Concessions shares," he told her.

"Are you mad?"

"No, but very hungry," he announced, as he led her to the table.

It seemed as though every shareholder in the Kopthill Concessions Company must have drunk of the wine of despair and fought his way into the hall where the meeting was being held. Benches and seats were packed when Sir Matthew rose portentously to his feet, only a few minutes after the advertised time. A gloomier collection of faces had seldom been seen.

"Ladies and gentlemen," he announced, after a few introductory remarks, "it had been our earnest hope that Mr. Grandlett, whom you will remember we despatched to your property some five months ago in order that we might arrive at an accurate idea as to its value, would have been here this afternoon. This, I fear, however, for reasons which it will be our duty to discuss presently, is now almost too much to hope for. I will try to explain to you what has happened, to the best of my ability, as soon as the secretary has read the minutes of the last meeting." There were shouts of interruption and many cries of "Tell us now!"—an angry clamour of hungry voices. A shareholder stood up in his place amidst continued uproar.

"Mr. Chairman," he said, "on behalf of the shareholders of this company, I ask if you have any explanation to make of the fact that the shares have dropped from twenty-eight shillings to rubbish price during the last twenty- four hours, before the report which Mr. Grandlett is supposed to have made has been submitted to this meeting?"

There was a storm of applause, mingled with hisses. Sir Matthew turned sorrowfully to the speaker.

"I should like to tell you, sir," he replied, "that so far as I am concerned, and I believe I may speak on behalf of my fellow directors, neither I nor any one of us has set eyes on Mr. Grandlett nor received any communication from him since his arrival in this country. Whence this leakage of information has come, I cannot tell you. I shall ask my fellow directors " He broke off in his speech. People were standing up and once more shouting wildly. A tall, sunburnt man, who had entered the room quite unobtrusively, was making his way with difficulty towards the head table. There was indescribable tumult. Sir Matthew stared at the newcomer as he might have done at a ghost. Then he turned to the audience and banged the table with his hammer.

"Ladies and gentlemen," he said, "Mr. Grandlett has shown us that he at least has courage. He has come to offer you his own explanation. I beg that you will listen to him."

Every one was only too anxious to obey the chairman's request. The silence which followed was almost appalling. Grandlett, who had at last made his way to the head table, leaned upon the back of a chair which some one had vacated for him, bowed to Sir Matthew, and turned around, facing them all.

"Mr. Chairman," he began, "and ladies and gentlemen, I am not much of a speaker. Later on, I'll answer any question you want to put to me. In the meanwhile this is what I've got to say. I have spent three months on your property, and I drew up a full report on it. Two or three hundred miles off the British coast I tore that report into pieces and threw them overboard." He paused for a moment. There were a hundred cries of

"Why?"—"What did you do that for?"

"I'll tell you," he went on. "Even before I sailed, and from morning until night on the steamer, I was plagued with wireless messages from newspapers, friends, shareholders, people of every sort interested in your company, begging for some hints as to the nature of my report. Now when I left England it was arranged that no definite word should come from me until my return, until, in fact, I presented myself at this meeting. I decided that that was the proper course to pursue, and I've stuck to it. The nearer I got to England, however, the more I realised that a good many people who had agreed with me previously had now changed their minds. I could see that I was going to get pretty well torn in pieces directly I arrived in London, and I determined to hide until the time came for this meeting. I have succeeded with some difficulty. Here I am. I'll now give you viva voce the first authentic news of your property."

The silence had become so intense, eyes were so strained, looking at that tall, sunburnt figure, that no one realised the tragedy which was going on.

"The next concession to yours," Grandlett continued, "is the Thorndyke Concession. Their pound shares stand to-day at sixty. Very well, if that is a fair price for them, your pound shares should stand at a hundred and twenty. You've got gold, you've got diamonds, you've got the largest and richest track of alluvial soil I've ever seen in my life. The only trouble is that the whole thing has been shockingly mismanaged by the most ignorant set of people I've ever known placed in authority. I've sacked every one of your managers and put fresh men in their places. We've new machinery being installed, and paid for out of the profits I made the two months I was there. The report will be in the hands of your auditors to-morrow, and all I can say is that if any of you have sold your shares because of this scare, I'm very sorry, but—"

It was impossible to proceed. There was a roar of voices. One man stood upon a table, and by dint of continually screaming out the same question finally made himself heard.

"Can you tell me, sir, the meaning of this slump in the shares?"

"I can," Grandlett replied. "If you'll have patience and listen to me for another moment. Before I landed, as I have already hinted to you, I had clear indications of forthcoming trouble. At Southampton I was met by a special messenger from a person holding a high office in your company, who insisted upon an interview with me the moment I arrived in London. I could foresee the sort of trouble which I was in for, and I replaced the report which I had already destroyed by a bogus one, which I locked away in my despatch case, and which would never see the light unless it was stolen from me. Some one did steal it, and some one I should think is going to pay for this theft, for they tell me that there is a 'bear' of half a million shares out, and all I can say is that I'm sorry for any one who's at the back of that transaction. The bogus report may seem to you, ladies and gentlemen, indefensible. I can't help it if it does. All I can tell you is this—that no one but a thief could ever have got at it, and from my point of view he simply got what was coming to him. That's all, ladies and gentlemen."

The uproar was so tremendous that it was not until after the stampede towards the doors was over that any one noticed the chairman lying with his head upon the table and his hands outstretched—dead in his chair.

Grandlett, always a reticent man, was curiously averse to discussing the tragedy for which he was indirectly responsible. Quite unexpectedly, however, in the lounge of the Clover Club, a few nights later, when he found himself alone with Estelle and Jennerton, he opened up the subject and closed it again.

"I dare say I could have dealt with those other fellows," he remarked, "but when old Sir Matthew himself sent his secretary and that fellow Crawshay to meet me at Waterloo Station, I knew there was going to be trouble. They made me go and speak to him. He was in a car outside, and he offered me twenty thousand pounds for the report. After that, it seemed to me there was only one thing to be done, and I did it. I got into a taxi, drove to the other side of London, and stayed there. I suppose Crawshay saw that I'd given my portfolio to Estelle. They weren't content with that, though. They must have hired a professional to go through my luggage in my rooms in Jermyn Street. Sir Matthew, of all men in the world!"

"Was there any one in with him?" Jennerton asked.

"Not a soul, so far as I can hear," Grandlett replied. "He went to twenty- five different brokers to launch his 'bear' against the shares directly he'd read my bogus report. Two of them, they tell me, will be hammered next Thursday. A hundred and ninety thousand pounds they say the difference is."

"What price are the shares to-day?" Jennerton enquired.

"Seventy-two, and dead cheap."

Estelle leaned forward.

"Tell me what made you buy those few shares the other night?" she asked Jennerton.

He laughed.

"Well, there were one or two things I couldn't understand," he admitted. "First of all, why did Sir Matthew come to me unless he was in a terrible state of anxiety and wanted to discover whether I knew anything? Then, from the little I'd heard of Grandlett, I couldn't quite see him leaving a report of such value in that leather case, and clearing out as he did from Waterloo. I just took a chance. Enables me to stand you two dinner, anyway—and another cocktail first," he added, holding up his hand to the barman.

"By the bye, Grandlett, you might tell us where you hid. I had three of my best men looking for you. We traced your taxi and then lost you."

Grandlett smiled.

"I changed taxis three times," he confided. "As to where I hid—well, life's a queer show, and I might want to lie doggo again some day."

"Wise man," Jennerton murmured, as he turned to the barman to give his orders.</story>