<story title="THE MAN WITH TWO BAGS" date="1929">
"My first Coroner's Inquest," Jennerton, the amateur, whispered to his companion, Detective Hewson, during a momentary pause in the proceedings.

"What do you think of it?"

"Miserably inadequate," was the disappointed reply. "It's the story of a murder told at secondhand. No thrill about it—no sense of drama."

The professional detective smiled. He, too, was a man of ideas.

"I'll tell you why that is," he explained. "It's because the human element is lacking. There's no criminal, there's no one you can look at in the dock, knowing that behind his nervous twitchings and wandering eyes lies full knowledge of the whole affair. We are rather ghouls, we students of crime. We like to see fear betraying itself, because fear—especially the fear of a slowly approaching and awful death—is a tragedy in itself. This is just a record of events. It should give you something to think about, but it's your brain rather than your sense of the dramatic which is excited. It's like reading a play instead of seeing it acted."

Without a doubt, the entourage of the small courtroom, the inquest itself, was a very insignificant affair compared with the tragedy which had preceded it. True, there was a little shudder in the Court when the jurymen filed back to their places, pale and shaken from their brief visit to view the body of the murdered man. Their discomposure, however, was brief-lived and unelectric, and supplied the single thrill of the proceedings. The coroner himself, and the three witnesses, seemed never for a moment to rise to the horror of the situation. Miles Goschen, a septuagenarian, archaeologist, scholar and recluse, had been found lying upon the stairs of his small house at the end of one of the avenues between Hampstead and Golder's Green, his skull battered in by a tremendous blow, his house ransacked of its priceless collection of old Georgian silver. The doctor who had been summoned had nothing to say except that the blow had without a doubt been delivered with an iron banister rail which had obviously been for some time before loose in its socket and easily detached. A lean-faced young man in a brown mackintosh had given the necessary evidence of identification, claiming the deceased as his uncle, whom he had not seen for over a fortnight. The third witness was the only one at all out of the common, and that was because he was wheeled into the Court in a chair, assisted to a seat in the witness box, and listened to questions by means of a trumpet. He was fragile, blue-eyed and shrunken, and when he announced himself as eighty-one years of age and butler to the deceased, there was an almost incredulous murmur in the Court.

"What might be your age, Joyce?" the coroner enquired.

"Eighty-one, sir."

"And still in service!"

"I have been with 'e fifty-two years, sir," the man replied.

"He couldn't do nowt without me."

"And you heard nothing last Thursday night?"

Joyce shook his head.

"I be deaf, sir," he confided, "and I do sleep well. I sleep until Mrs. Adams—she be the charlady who comes in to do the work—wakes me and brings me a cup of tea at seven o'clock in the morning. Then I dress and take master his tea. He wouldn't have no woman near 'e."

"You heard no sounds whatever in the night then? You had no intimation that there were burglars in the house, that your master was in danger?"

"Not a sound, sir," was the old man's sorrowful admission. "I do sleep heavy, and afore I had this trumpet it would have taken an earthquake to wake me."

That was all the evidence there was. The police had nothing to say. The jury, without leaving the box, brought in a verdict of "Murder committed by some person or persons unknown", and the little crowd melted away. Jennerton and his friend parted outside.

"Well, thanks very much for having brought me," the former commented. "I'll admit my first inquest was a disappointment to me, but I'm glad to have seen one all the same." The detective nodded.

"It wasn't much of a show," he admitted. "If old gentlemen like that will go and live in a neighbourhood which is only partially inhabited, without any protection and with a collection of valuable silver, it seems to me they are rather asking for it."

"Have you any line on the murderer?" Jennerton enquired curiously.

His companion pursed his lips.

"There are two men we're watching," he confided, "and a third who might be in it. The queer part is the weapon."

"It seems a natural one enough," Jennerton observed. "Didn't the old man say it had been lying out of its socket for days, and some of the others were only just in their places?"

"That's true," the detective assented. "All the same, a man who commits murder generally has a slicker weapon than that up his sleeve. However, I think in a week from now we shall be able to tell you all about it. Sha'n't need to call upon you for help this time, I think, Mr. Jennerton."

The two men smiled and shook hands. It transpired, however, that the detective was a little sanguine.

Jennerton, seated alone in his office after hours one evening about ten days later, paused in the middle of the letter he was writing, to listen. There was without a doubt something stealthy, almost sinister, in the sound of those slowly mounting footsteps clearly audible through the half-opened door. It was an unusual hour for visitors, and an unusual thing for any one to mount four flights of stone stairs with a perfectly well-regulated lift in being. These footsteps, however, were human and unmistakable. They reached the last flight but one and still continued. Their soft pit-pat upon the hard floor, mysterious yet significant of purpose, awoke in Jennerton a sense perhaps not of fear but certainly of disquietude. He opened a drawer of the desk before which he was seated, and from its recesses placed ready to hand a light automatic pistol. Then he resumed his former attitude, only with a new element of tenseness. His eyes watched the crack in the door. . . .

The arriving visitor, however, displayed no obviously malevolent intentions. He knocked politely and only entered at Jennerton's invitation. Then he came slowly into view, and the more Jennerton saw of him the more he felt inclined to smile at his vague uneasiness of a few minutes before. Finally he presented himself in toto, a small, cadaverous man, neatly dressed in sober black, an apology even for existence in every gesture. The cautious footfall needed no further explanation. Holding his bowler hat in his hand he bowed awkwardly.

"Mr. Jennerton, sir?"

"My name. What do you want with me?"

The newcomer looked around the room as though to be sure that it was empty. Then he closed the door behind him.

"A little matter of business, Guv'nor."

Jennerton glanced at the clock. It was after eight.

"A trifle past business hours, isn't it?" he suggested. His prospective client coughed.

"In my job we are used to late hours, sir," he confided. "I saw your glim burning from the street, so I hoped I might find you here. I've been waiting some time. I don't care about crowds. I wanted to find you alone."

"What is your job? Who are you and what do you want?" Jennerton enquired, waving his visitor to a seat. The latter coughed again, deposited his hat upon the ground, and himself upon the edge of the chair.

"By profession, Guv'nor," he confessed, "I am a burglar—a neat, scientific and up-to-date burglar. I guarantee to open any safe of any make you put before me with my own tools and plenty of time. My name is Hyams—Len Hyams. The other part of your question I will answer when you've put my mind at ease upon one point."

Jennerton stared for a moment in silence at his strange caller. The latter was not in the least a typical specimen of the profession to which he claimed to belong. But on the other hand, notwithstanding his air of complete respectability, there was a curious expression about the eyes and mouth, a stealthiness of tone and manner which gave plausibility to his statement.

"Well, go ahead, Mr. Hyams," Jennerton invited.

"I gather, sir, that you are a member of a firm of private tecs. You don't link up anyway with the cops?"

"Certainly not—and nowadays I work on my own. I am not connected with any firm."

Mr. Hyams cleared his throat.

"I want to put it to you like this, Guv'nor," he explained. "There are times when one of us who's out of luck has to consult with a lawyer. Take a man like Slim Bennett now. You know Slim Bennett?"

"I know whom you mean," Jennerton admitted drily.

"Well, to a man like that you've got to make clean hog's wash of it. You've got to tell the whole truth, and not round the corners. He's got to know whether you've done the job or whether the police are just trying to frame it on you. Unless you go straight, he won't take it on. Very well, then. Whatever you tell him don't go outside the office. Get me, Guv'nor?"

"I think so."

"Then what about these four walls?"

Jennerton considered the point for a moment.

"Same thing, I should think," he decided, "at any rate, so far as regards an ordinary misdemeanour. If it were a crime— a serious affair, mind, like manslaughter or anything of that sort—I should refuse to accept a client's confidence. I wouldn't undertake to assist a client who pleaded guilty to burglary to escape detection, but if the confession of burglary were only part of the affair and I was engaged to help a client in its other developments, I should consider his confession as to the burglary privileged."

"You've got me guessing, Guv'nor."

"I mean that I shouldn't peach," Jennerton explained. His visitor mused for a moment, twirling his hat around and gazing at the maker's name inside. Then he looked suddenly up, and Jennerton surprised an expression in his eyes which for a moment startled him—an expression of strangely intensive terror. The man's fingers, too, were trembling. Fear was gripping his heart.

"You've read about the Forest Avenue job?"

"Stop!" Jennerton warned him. "I was at the inquest. That wasn't a case of burglary. That was a case of murder."

"Too late!" the little man faltered despairingly, with a queer twitching of the lips and drops of perspiration upon his forehead. "It's up from my inside. It's upon my lips. I shall go mad if I don't speak. So 'elp me, Gawd, I never touched the old man! The job was done after I left, but I done the burglary. I got the stuff now, curse it! If I'd known what was coming afterwards, I'd have chucked it in the river."

Jennerton looked across at his visitor incredulously. The Forest Avenue burglary and murder seemed to have become, on the lips of the public and in the pages of the newspapers, indissolubly connected. Many criminologists, including Jennerton himself, had spent hours trying to arrive at a solution of the crime. There was something manifestly improbable in this man's crude confession.

"I am afraid that sounds a bit thin," he remarked. "I'd just as soon you'd kept away from here with a tale like that. What on earth was the use of coming to me? What do you expect me to do?"

"Nab the murderer," was the eager response. "Some one killed the old josser. I didn't. See?"

Jennerton stroked his chin thoughtfully.

"You'd find it difficult to convince a jury of that," he observed, "so long as they knew as much as you've confessed to me."

"Ain't that why I'm here?" the little man exclaimed excitedly.

"Can't you see," he went on, a quiver of fear in his tone, "if I'm lagged for this there isn't a soul who wouldn't believe that whilst I was on the job I didn't do the old man in? The police have got it on me good and hard because they know I was in that Burton Hill affair too, though they couldn't fix it on me. But, Guv'nor, here we are, man to man together. You've got to believe me. I don't even carry a gun. I ain't got the pluck. I've been a sneak thief and a sneak burglar all my life. That's what I am. I never take on a job unless I've got my get-away certain."

He paused to wipe the damp, unhealthy sweat from his forehead. A silent man by habit, fear had made him loquacious.

"I ain't never been afraid of being lagged before," he confided.

"I've took my chance like the others, and if I'm jugged I've gone with a grin. This time I've got the 'orrors. I can't sleep, can't sit still, can't even take my beer. If I see a cop my knees give."

"If you didn't do the old man in, have you any idea who did?" Jennerton demanded. "Remember, you've rather a thin tale to tell, unless there's something you're keeping back."

"This is the whole truth, so 'elp me, Gawd!" Hyams declared feverishly. "He came down the stairs just as I was filling the second bag. He was in his pyjamas and an overcoat, and he just opened the door and peeped in. I was going to make a dash for the window, when I saw that he hadn't a gun and he was looking a darned sight more scared than I was. 'What are you doing here, my man?' he piped out. 'Mind your own business and get back to bed,' I tells him. 'You're safer there.' 'You're stealing my silver,' he moaned, like a child as is losing his playthings. I didn't make no answer to this, but I moved towards him and for all he was an old gentleman he legs it down the passage and up the stairs faster than I could go. That suits me all right. There warn't no telephone, and I guessed he was too scared to go shouting about for some time, at any rate, so I just ups with my bags, closes the front door behind me and makes off down the avenue to where my mate was waiting at the corner with a taxi. When I read next morning that the old gentlemen had been done in, I couldn't believe my eyes. 'Burglary and brutal murder,' they called it. My Gawd!"

Jennerton leaned back in his chair and studied his visitor carefully. On the whole, improbable though his story was, he was inclined to consider, even to believe it. The mise en scene of that sordid drama became suddenly illuminated with dramatic possibilities. There was something thrilling in the thought of the rifled house, the old man shivering at the top of the stairs, and the stealthy arrival—from where, how—of the real murderer? Terribly improbable, but the greatest crimes in history have seemed like that.

"Let me see," Jennerton went on thoughtfully, "there was one manservant sleeping in the house, eighty-one years old, older and more infirm, in fact, than his master, and deaf as a post. The women servants, a charwoman and an assistant, arrived together every morning at seven o'clock. It was they who discovered the crime. The manservant was still asleep. That's right, isn't it?"

"That's right, Guv'nor. The old josser has to be woke up by the females and given his tea every morning before he could get up and carry on with his job."

"You have something else back of your mind that you haven't told me yet," Jennerton insisted suddenly. "As it is, you know, the whole thing's hopeless. Tell me the rest."

"It ain't much, and that's a fact, Guv'nor," was the somewhat despondent reply. "It's just this. When I gets out into the street that night, with the front door fast behind me, the first thing I does is to look up and down the avenue. I'd a bag in each hand, and heavy enough they were. At first I couldn't see no one. So off I starts for where Jimmy was waiting for me with the taxicab. I legged it along, I can tell you. Jimmy takes the bags from me and throws them into the cab, and just for a moment before I steps in I takes off my hat—I was fair sweating— and there, on the opposite side of the road, staring—not at me, but at the house I'd just left—was a tall, thin man in a brown mackintosh."

"In a brown mackintosh," Jennerton repeated.

"You've tumbled to it, Guv'nor," the little man cried harshly.

"You was at the inquest, I know. You was there with a tec."

"I was there, all right," Jennerton admitted, "but you don't mean to tell me that you were?"

Mr. Len Hyams' negation was contemptuous.

"I don't put my neck into no noose," he scoffed, "but there was plenty to tell the tale. The nephew—him who identified the body—you see him step up into the box and you heard what he said. A fortnight, he swore, since he'd seen his uncle. Well, it was 'e on the opposite side of the avenue. I seen him cross the road and go into the house after I'd left it, and, mind you, left the old man alive. He's the heir, ain't 'e? He's got the money. What was he doing in that 'ouse after I'd left it? He seen me all right. He seen me come out with the bags. He knew very well what the game was. What did he care? He let me get away with the swag, all right. He just done in the old man and slipped off. 'Burglary and murder'—that's what the papers called it the next morning. He'd thought it all out, the blasted skunk! It was me who did the burglary, all right, but it was him who did the murder."

There was a silence, brief but tense. The little man was leaning back in his chair, making strange noises in his throat, his eyes fixed all the time in a sort of frantic appeal upon the sternfaced young man opposite. Once more Jennerton, notwithstanding the thrill which he had brought with him, was inclined to wish that he had been spared the visit of this singular client.

"Tell me, Mr. Hyams," he begged, "exactly what you want me to do for you?"

"Ain't it easy to tumble to that?" was the feverish reply. "You know who did the job now. I've told you. Fix it on him. I'll tell you what I'll do, Guv'nor," he went on, his tone changing to one of almost passionate appeal, "fix it on 'im, make me safe, and you shall either have the whole value of the swag I got away with, or if you say the word, I'll go down to the police station and give myself up for the burglary. I can do my three or four years without a whimper, but the thought of the other thing sends the blood around my heart cold. It gives me the death shivers."

"Have you any reason to suppose that you're under suspicion at the present moment?" Jennerton enquired.

His visitor groaned.

"They've been watching me ever since that night," he admitted, "but they can't fix it on me yet. Jimmy's too clever for them. We made a clear get-away, and the taxi ain't a taxi any longer. Without 'im they're bothered. There ain't a soul seen me, but the boys is cunning. They're waiting to see if I get busy with the swag. I strolled past Pat Nathan's store—Nathan the Fence, you know—the other evening, but there was one of 'em watching. I just had me 'ands in me pocket, casual like, and I turned in at the pub at the corner. Nothing doing with any of the stuff for me. I got other money beside that, Guv'nor. I ain't touched that swag, but your fee's all right. Name the sum and I'll cough it up. Honest money too!"

His fingers went towards his breast pocket. Jennerton shook his head.

"We'll let the question of the fee alone until we see what I can do," he decided. "I'll go so far as to make some enquiries about our friend in the brown mackintosh. Come back on Thursday night at nine o'clock. I won't ask your address." The little man rose reluctantly to his feet.

"Guv'nor," he pleaded, "you're only half believing me, but so 'elp me, Gawd, if I were to die to-night, I didn't do it. I pinched the stuff, all right, but I never touched the old man. He never gave me the chance, but I'd never have touched him if he did. Them ain't the lines I work on. Even the cops know that."

"I'll try to believe it," Jennerton promised, not unkindly. Two days later, Jennerton, towards the close of a busy afternoon, found time to study a report which had been handed to him an hour or so earlier. It was of an unexciting character:—

STEPHEN GOSCHEN

Wholesale grocer's town traveller, married, with four children, living in South Street, Camberwell. Never in trouble, nothing known against him, but believed to be in debt. Good character from employers. Reported to have come into money recently from the estate of Miles Goschen of Forest Avenue, Hampstead, the victim of the celebrated murder and burglary.

Movements on night of November 22nd, difficult to trace, but it is certain that he was at home for supper at nine o'clock, went for a walk afterwards, and had one glass of beer before closing time at the Cat and Fiddle, Royston Street. Arrived at business at the usual hour on the following morning.

Jennerton studied the report with a certain amount of disappointment. Just as he had finished reading it for the second time, there was a knock at the door, and the office boy presented himself.

"Gentleman to see you, sir," he announced. "Rather not give his name."

"What sort of a person?"

The lad's expression was noncommittal.

"Ordinary sort. Rather shabbily dressed, wearing a brown mackintosh."

There was a sudden gleam of interest in Jennerton's eyes.

"Show him in," he directed.

There entered a tall, thin young man, wearing a brown mackintosh which reached almost to his heels. He was clean-shaven, weary-looking, and undistinguished. He carried a traveller's black bag in his hand. Jennerton greeted him briefly, pointed to a chair, and waited until the door was closed.

"Why no name?" he enquired. The visitor seated himself and deposited the bag by his side.

"My business with you is confidential, sir," he announced.

"My name is Stephen Goschen."

"Any relation to the late Mr. Goschen of Forest Avenue?" The man shivered. There was a touch of the same fear in his eyes as had smouldered in the eyes of Len Hyams.

"Nephew."

"His heir?"

"What he's left comes to me," the other acknowledged. "Half his property went the night he was murdered, though. Six thousand pounds' worth of silver they reckon the burglar got away with."

"Now tell me, please, your business with me?" Jennerton invited.

His visitor hesitated.

"What I say will be treated confidentially?" he persisted.

"Absolutely," Jennerton assured him. "I am not a police official."

"Very well then," the lean young man in the mackintosh continued. "This is what I've come here to tell you. On the very night of the murder, after supper, I went and shad a glass of beer at a pub, and whilst I was there I made up my mind to pay my Uncle Miles a visit. I've got a wife and four children, and my salary's four pound ten a week. My wife's been ill, and had to have a nurse, and as soon as she got well, the children came down with the measles. I couldn't pay my way, and the rent was owing as well. I knew all right that Uncle Miles was a miser. He prided himself on never giving a thing away. I never had a bob from him in my life, but I made up my mind that night that we were kith and kin and that he'd got to help me, or—"

"Or what?" Jennerton asked swiftly. His visitor was for a moment almost ghastly pale. He had the look of a man furious with himself. One word too much!

"I hadn't a shilling in the house," he went on. "I meant to insist upon his giving me at least enough to pay the rent."

"How insist?" Jennerton queried.

"Damn it!" the other burst out angrily. "Let me tell the story my own way."

"So long as you accept my warning that there is one confidence that I could not respect."

"I know what you mean. I didn't kill him. I tell you here and now, I didn't kill him. Have you got that?"

"Go on."

"That's what I want to do. I got across to Forest Avenue. I came up on the other side of the road to Number nineteen, and I was just going to cross when I saw the front door of the house open and a small man come out, carrying two bags— much too heavy for him. I stood there watching him. He didn't seem to be in a hurry, but he looked up and down the road cautiously, without seeing me though, for I was just in the pool of shadow from a lime tree. I didn't think it was a burglary then. I knew my uncle wasn't too particular where he bought his antique silver, and I thought he'd either been buying or selling some on the Q.T. . . . Presently the little man picked up his bags again and made off for the corner of the avenue where there was a taxi waiting. It struck me then that there was something queer about it, so I crossed the road, found the front door closed but unlatched, walked in—and—God, you know!—there was a pool of blood in the hall, and Uncle Goschen dead upon the bottom stair, with his legs doubled up under him, and his head all split open."

The man suddenly covered his face with his hands. A choking sob which was more like a moan crept through his fingers. Jennerton waited for him to recover himself.

"Why did you not tell this story at the inquest?" he asked at last.

"Because I was afraid," his strange visitor confessed, with a touch of defiance in his breaking tone. "There was no one else in the avenue. Who was going to believe my story of a man coming out of the house with two bags, and a taxicab waiting for him, and I not interfering? They all know that I was on bad terms with my uncle. They all know—or would have done as soon as the charge against me was brought—that I was in desperate straits for money. Supposing I'd fetched the police, they wouldn't have listened to my story for a minute. I should have spent the night in jail and God knows what would have become of me afterwards. I had done no harm by just opening the door and looking in. I couldn't bring the old man to life again by fetching help. I slipped away and left the police to do their job."

"And compromised yourself hopelessly by committing perjury at the inquest," Jennerton observed drily.

"I suppose so," was the grudging admission.

Jennerton considered for a moment. The man's story was possible but not altogether convincing.

"Tell me now," he asked, "exactly why you have come to mer"

"Because something must be done about it, and because I daren't go to the police," was the fiercely impatient reply. "I can't go to the police now and tell them about the little man with the two bags and the taxicab—it's too late—but I can come to you. You can't give me away. It's a job worth having, isn't it? I can describe the little man to you, and the taxicab. I can't pay you anything until I touch what the old man left, but there's a thousand pounds' reward offered by the Daily Standard. That's worth having, isn't it?" Jennerton leaned back in his chair and looked shrewdly across at his visitor.

"Supposing I find the little man with the two bags and he swears that he left the old man alive?"

"Sounds likely, doesn't it?" the other scoffed. "Why, I was in the house five minutes after him."

"Precisely, but you wouldn't care to admit it in the witness box, would you?"

"What's that got to do with it? My looking in at that door can just be washed out. Didn't do any harm and didn't do any good. I tell you the old man had been killed a few minutes before, and there isn't a soul in his senses would doubt that the man with the two bags had done it—as he had. Are you going to look for him, Mr. Jennerton, or must I go to another firm?"

"I'll look for him," Jennerton promised. "Come again on Friday at five o'clock."

Punctually at the hour named on the following Friday, Stephen Goschen presented himself. Both in appearance and bearing he was a transformed man. The brown mackintosh had been discarded. He wore a neat morning suit of dark grey. His linen was irreproachable, his manner almost jaunty. He carried a copy of the morning paper in his hand. On its front page, in thick black type, was set out the news which had thrilled a million readers over their morning coffee:—

FOREST AVENUE TRAGEDY DRAMATIC ARREST
Yesterday morning, at Bow Street Police Station, a man named Len Hyams, arrested in the early hours of the morning, was charged with burglary at 19, Forest Avenue, and with the murder of Mr. Miles Goschen. The accused man, who collapsed in the dock, was remanded for a week. The taxicab driver has also been arrested, and will be charged with being an accessory to the burglary.

"Is this your work?" Goschen asked.

Jennerton shook his head.

"I had nothing whatever to do with it," he admitted. "The police managed it off their own bat."

The young man lounged in his chair. He had no longer the appearance of a shivering outcast.

"Well, that's one up for the police, anyway," he declared. "I gave you the chance, though. You might have touched that thousand quid if you'd got in before them."

"I'm not so sure that I would have cared about it," Jennerton replied. "Blood money isn't the pleasantest sort of thing to handle, you know."

His visitor was surprised.

"Hang it all," he expostulated, "a man who commits a murder like that deserves all that's coming to him for it!"

"Without a doubt," Jennerton assented.

"Well, do I owe you anything?" Stephen Goschen asked, after a momentary pause. "Any out-of-pockets, for instance, for enquiries you made?"

"Nothing at all."

The young man rose to his feet.

"Well, there's no need for me to take up your time," he remarked, a little awkwardly.

Jennerton touched his bell and the office boy opened the door.

"Very considerate of you," he acknowledged with a brief nod, keeping his hands in his pockets. "I do happen to be rather busy this evening."

Mr. Stephen Goschen took his leave—not quite so jauntily as he had arrived.

It was precisely a week later when Jennerton, accompanied by his friend Hewson, left his car at the corner of the Great North Road and a winding Hertfordshire lane, and, after a few minutes' walk, lifted the latch of a wooden gate and approached a small white-plastered cottage. There were early summer flowers already in the garden, bees humming over the strip of vegetable plot, a general atmosphere of rural peace about the little demesne. Before they could reach the front door, a woman opened it and confronted them.

"What might you be wanting, gentlemen?" she demanded truculently.

"We want just a word with Mr. Richard Joyce," Jennerton announced.

"Then you can't have it," was the curt rejoinder. "It's only this morning the doctor seed him. 'Not a visitor, not a word,' he said. He's my brother and 'e ain't going to be disturbed." Jennerton glanced down the narrow tiled way to where a small, shrunken-up figure, wrapped in rugs, was seated happily in the sunshine, smoking a diminutive pipe and regarding them with amiable interest.

"I am very sorry, Madam," he explained, "but this gentleman with me is connected with the police, and we want just a word with your brother about that unfortunate night when his master was murdered."

"Police!" the woman exclaimed bitterly. "I knowed it. Said to myself as I saw you open the gate that you'd come bothering an old man with one leg in the grave. You 'ad 'im at the inquest. He told you all he knew. I tell you, he ain't fit to talk. He's balmy. He went soft in the head directly we got here." Perhaps the woman herself scarcely knew how it happened, but the two men passed her before she realised their intention, and made their way to where the old man was seated. He touched his hat as they approached.

"Gentlemen both," he greeted them, "good morning. I likes visitors. What might you be wanting?"

Jennerton glanced around.

"Well, you have found a very pleasant little home, Joyce," he observed.

"And about time," was the querulous reply. "Fifty-two years, gentlemen, I worked for this bit of a home, and thirty years without a penny of wage, unless I could pick a bit up, as I did, maybe, at odd times. That's a lifetime, gentlemen. All my life— waiting. It be coom a bit late—a bit late."

He looked out across the fields, his bleared blue eyes filled with a quaint, ugly glimmer. The woman fidgeted uncomfortably in the background.

"He did keep me waiting too long, gentlemen," Joyce continued, his hands beginning to tremble. "Twenty years ago this were due to me. Week by week I used to ax him. 'I'm done enough work, Mr. Goschen,' I used to tell 'e. 'Give me my bit, and let me go. I want a chair in the garden, and a pot of beer, and my pipe. I'm past work.' But not 'e. Oh, he were a hard 'un—he were a hard 'un, he were. But he got his due," the old man went on, his voice rising shrill and quivering. "He got his due. How I hated 'e! That night "

"Richard!" the woman shouted.

"That night," he went oar, Indifferent to her cry, indifferent to the fact that one of his visitors was holding her back—"that night I heard the noise downstairs, although I telled they gentlemen I didn't. I heard all right, and down I coom to the top of the stairs. He were watching the little man with the two bags go out of the door. Then he turned around and looked at me, and I knew I'd have to wait longer still, now he'd lost some of his precious siller, and I ups with that iron rail, that he'd been too mean to pay for to have put in its place, and God or the devil—who were it—I don't know—gave me the strength I used to have when I were a young man, and as he crept down towards the closed door—he were going to shout for help, I reckon—I crept after him, and I fetched him one. You should have seen him go, misters both. I looked, and looked, and looked—and I were happy. I'd done it at last. I'd meant to do it many years afore, but I lacked the courage. How I hated 'e!"

The woman's shriek rang out. Hewson was just in time to catch the chair. The old man's face was twisted; there was froth on his lips, and it seemed to Jennerton that all the drama that was missing in that dismal little courtroom was throbbing now in the honeysuckle perfumed air.</story>