<story title="PASSITER'S SIMPLE JOB" date="1929">
"ORGANISATION," Major Eustace Grant declared boastfully, as he leaned against the upstairs bar of Flood's Club,—"that is what does it, Conklin—the most perfect organization in the world, every detail thought out, every possibility taken into account."

Mr. Nicholas Conklin drank his cocktail in respectful silence.

"There's a touch of luck in it too, Major," he insisted.

"Why luck?" Grant rejoined. "It's quite true that when the description of the man who had burgled Portland House was circulated, and Mat's dead body was found the next day in the Thames, the police did come here. I interviewed one of the inspectors myself, but I ask you how could they could make anything out of it? There were between thirty and forty people in the restaurant downstairs who were prepared to swear to the fact that Mat never left our dining table except to answer the telephone, that he was with us all the evening, and only went away when he was so drunk that he had to be helped out. The commissionaire who put him into a taxi declared that he could do nothing with him. Off he drove, and our responsibility ended there. As to the man who committed the burglary at Portland House, he may have been a small man too, and may have resembled Mat, but what do we know about that? What do we know about the jewels?"

"I hope we know that they are going to be added to the general stock," Conklin observed. "There was one there, at any rate, I should like to see again."

"I will decide later about their disposition," Grant promised, "but I don't think they'll come your way, in any case, my friend from overseas."

Conklin chuckled.

"We'll see about that. I haven't finished feeling puzzled about Mat yet. You had to have some one follow him when he was pushed into the taxi-cab."

"The gang were out—Jacky Costigan's," Grant explained shortly—"Costigan's Hornets, as the police call them. We have our own motor boat, and if it comes to that, the taxicab was ours too. Poor Mat wasn't the first who's been taken for a ride down to the Thames, only he was dead before he started, poor fellow!"

"Well, I'm beginning to think something of you chaps," Nick Conklin remarked condescendingly. "I'm proud to be connected with you, Major. I liked to think we ran things pretty well over my way, but we haven't the detail you have. Charles," he added, turning to the barman, "set up a round of cocktails to me. I know, when the time comes," he went on, "I shall be almost ashamed to take all this money away with me. I would be, at least, if I didn't know that you could all afford it."

There was a ripple of laughter around the little circle, which had increased during the last few moments. Eustace Grant laughed with the usual unpleasant curve of his lips; Passiter's expression of mirth was like the harsh cackling of a hyena; Chaplain Lane's was more natural, but Sam Rubens' was simply a jeer.

"What are you going out for, Nick—the Crown Jewels?" Grant demanded sarcastically.

"I think he's got his eye on the Mint," Passiter suggested.

"What about the Bank of England?" Bradman queried.

"Jolly away, you fellows," Conklin invited good-humouredly. "The fact remains that on the night of the feast, Amos Grimmett, your great valuer, will award me the prize. What I am going after I marked down long before I came to this country. I admit the Major here is a great organiser, and he's got you all going well, but I can take the lid off my little affair at any time. I have every risk taken care of, even to the chance of the maid having the toothache."

"You fellows do know how to brag," Sam Rubens declared. "Pity you won't learn how to play cards. I'd take some of you down a bit."

"When you bring off this marvellous coup, are you going to hire the whole of Costigan's gang," Grant enquired, "or have you chartered the Mauretania to bring your own people across?"

"I am working alone," Nick of New York announced. "I have never needed help and I never seek any. I am taking only a get-away—Miss Dring, if she will still trust me."

Martha came into the room at that moment and, at the sound of her name, crossed towards the bar. Conklin thrust a cocktail into her hand, which she drank almost feverishly.

"I was just saying that I want you in my show," he confided. "I told you so from the first, you know."

She made a little grimace.

"I'm not sure that I want to do anything about it," she replied. "It isn't that I don't trust you, Nick, because I do, but I think that my sympathies are swinging over to the other side. You really bad men are getting on my nerves."

"Where have you been all day?" Grant asked suspiciously.

"I've been to Brighton to lunch with some friends and I went round to call upon ex-Detective Dickins," she answered defiantly.

"Hankering after these Scotland Yard muts, are you?" Grant muttered.

"I think I am," she admitted, turning towards him with a sweet smile. "They haven't your brains, but I like their dispositions better. They're not so bloodthirsty as you people."

"Who says they're not?" Passiter demanded. "They're such rotten gunmen. That's why they don't do more mischief."

"I like them all the better for it," she insisted. "Then, Mr. Dickins is quite an artist. He has a sweet little cottage and, for a man, really good taste. He has some copies of old masters he bought in Florence, which are exceedingly well chosen, some modern French etchings which I envied him, some genuine old engravings, Dutch furniture I'd give anything to own, and—listen—one of my own designs which he bought at the Goupil Gallery."

"How's his health?" Passiter sneered.

"He doesn't look any better," she sighed. "Of course, he says he feels stronger every day. By-the-by, I see you're all here. Is any one going out to-night?"

"I am," Passiter announced. "Want to come with me? You'll see something."

"I don't think so," she answered. "What sort of a stunt is it?"

Passiter shook his head.

"I'm after the big prize," he confided. "I can't afford to give anything away, even at the last moment. If you're coming with me, you shall hear all about it before you leave; if you're not, it's mum. I could do with you and Nick Conklin," he reflected, eyeing them thoughtfully.

"Any rough-house business?" the girl enquired.

"Not in your department."

"We'll think of it," she promised. "Give me another cocktail to get my courage up."

"A round," he insisted. "Charlie, cocktails around."

There was a little flutter, a chorus of well-simulated amazement, some applause. Passiter was notoriously a mean man. He mocked at them.

"After the day of judgment here," he prophesied, "there won't be one of you who has the money to stand cocktails except Bert Passiter."

They drifted down to dinner. Passiter seated himself between Nick Conklin and Martha. He refused champagne and ordered Evian water.

"For my work," he explained, "I need no stimulant. I love it. Afterwards—for enjoyment, and nothing else—as much wine as the best of you. Now, if you really mean to come with me, I'll explain the show."

"If we don't cotton to it," Conklin assured him, "we won't give you away."

Passiter talked in a low tone and earnestly, now addressing himself particularly to one and now to another. When he had finished, he indulged in a triumphant chuckle. He looked at them sideways and clapped himself on the knees.

"It's clever," Nick of New York admitted, "and simple. Too simple, I'm afraid. Do you think he'll fall for them?"

"How can he help it?" Passiter demanded. "What else is there for him to do? You're getting soft-hearted. You ought to take a fancy to this scheme of mine, Miss Dring. It's giving a man a chance for his life. That's what it is. It's the most humane job that's ever been planned."

"It seems to me all right," she admitted.

Passiter straightened his tie. He was looking like a pleased and malicious guinea fowl.

"I tell you a crook's business needs brains," he confided. "These other fellows aren't bad, and the Major knows a thing or two, but there's too much gunnery about his jobs for my taste. Not enough finesse. See what I mean? Not enough subtlety."

"You'll leave your gun behind to-night then, of course?" the girl remarked.

Passiter smiled—a cunning smile.

"Couldn't do that," he replied. "I keep it for an emergency, though. I don't use it for the sake of making a noise like those Chicago toughs. Well, are you on, both of you?"

They exchanged glances. Nick of New York nodded almost imperceptibly.

"Yes, we'll come," the girl agreed.


The commencement of their expedition seemed to Martha and her companion full of mystery. They drew up exactly according to directions in a small street leading out of the Brompton Road and found themselves in the shadow of an enormous building with the outline of which neither of them were familiar.

"Buckingham Palace, after all," Conklin whispered, as he stepped on to the pavement.

She extinguished the lights of her car and took him by the arm.

"It's one of the museums, I believe," she confided. "I forget which. Come along!"

Apparently Passiter's organization left nothing to be desired. About twenty yards up the street, they stepped through the postern door of some great wooden gates and found themselves in a large yard in which were hundreds of packing cases. Keeping in the shadow of the building, Martha counted the doors until she reached the seventh. With the pressure of her hand, it opened. They were both conscious more by sensation than by actual vision that Passiter was standing within a few feet of them.

"Follow me!" he directed. "Don't use your torches. I'll flash on a light where it's necessary."

Both to Martha and Conklin the way seemed interminable. They followed their smooth-footed guide along a maze of passages, across bare rooms littered with empty boxes, huge, crypt-like chambers packed with damaged or rejected statuary, both ancient and modern, from the crudest Grecian remains to the latest grotesque productions of some ultra-modern studio. Here and there, they came across a collection of bones, apparently of some primeval creature, formless and shapeless, collected, and fastened together by artificial means. There was a gigantic statue, evidently smashed to pieces in transit, with the head lolling over the wide of the case, a hideous grin fixed upon its opened mouth. There were broken pillars, the strange, entwining designs upon which had been lost by a fracture, and, in one room, row after row of pictures, unwelcome offerings, with their faces turned to the wall. It seemed to be the garbage heap of years, the unwanted contributions of centuries. All these things they saw by the occasional flashes of the torch which Passiter, a few yards in front, carried. They watched him in wonder, and Martha, at any rate, for the first time understood his peculiar reputation as a thief by night. He seemed like a human stoat, bent halfway to the ground, making his progress in little darts, switching on his light precisely at the right moment, dimming it when the way was clear. Even his breathing was inaudible. He had become a soundless creature of the underworld.... They came at last to a short staircase. Here Passiter held out a warning hand and mounted the steps one by one. On the topmost, he paused for quite a minute, standing there, almost invisible, with his light extinguished. Then he motioned to them to come on.

They knew, of course, when they stepped out into the broad alley, with its showcases on each side, that they were in the museum proper. Yet, in the dim light, there seemed something unearthly in their surroundings, as though they had wandered into some supernatural edifice of mammoth proportions. Passiter obviously had no such fanciful thoughts. He beckoned them to stand close to him and pointed to a divan a few feet away.

"That," he whispered, "is the divan where you rested after exploring the north end of the building and fell asleep. You will take your places there, as soon as I have gone. To your left, about twenty yards away, runs the main avenue. You see it?"

Martha nodded.

"To the right," he went on, "it leads to the side entrance, where you will find your car, and by which I wish you to leave. To the left, about eighty yards down, the janitor sits in an easy-chair, watching over the loaned jewels. You understand? All one long avenue—the jewels and the janitor one end, the door by which you leave the other."

"Quite clear so far," Conklin murmured.

"Very well," Passiter continued. "You sit down now. You rest on that couch for exactly five minutes after I have disappeared. You can count seconds, if you can't see your watch. Then you get up, and, taking no precautions as to silence, you become perfectly natural. You have just awakened from sleep and you are a little dazed. You stumble out to the avenue. The young lady can even call for help. You, Miss Dring, turn towards the janitor, mind, and not towards the door. You wake him, if he is still asleep, and he comes with you to open this door, outside which you have left your car. Keep him with you as long as you can. Tip him well. Make friends with him. Explain that you have been out very late for two nights, that Conklin here is your fiancé, and that you really wandered in more to rest than to see the exhibits. Then you fell asleep, and you've only just waked up. Meanwhile, at the other end of the alley, I shall be busy. It will not take me long to cut through the showcase and collect the jewels. My get-away is planned at another exit altogether. When the janitor returns, the affair is over. Not a shot, not a blow, not an unkind word. It is the Passiter method," he concluded, with his ugly grin.

Conklin pulled out his watch and peered at it.

"Get to work," he enjoined....

Passiter glided off and the other two subsided into their places.... The passing minutes seemed interminable. The girl's hand suddenly felt for her companion's.

"This place terrifies me," she murmured. "I seem to hear sounds all round. Listen! What is it, Nick?"

"The silence," he whispered back. "Stick it out. It gets on your nerves. I felt it once in the museum at Cairo."

"There are people moving about in the distance."

He listened intently. A shadow crept into his face. He was not at all sure that she wasn't right, but he affected to disbelieve her.

"Fancy," he assured her. "Hold on. It will all be over in one more minute now and you can scream as loudly as you like."

At precisely the appointed time, he replaced his watch in his pocket and they rose. On the whole, they gave a very creditable imitation of a young couple suddenly awakened from a tragic fit of somnolence.

"There must be a night watchman or someone," he declared, as they followed directions and staggered along to the broad avenue. "You wait here. I'll explore down the other way."

"No, you don't," she choked. "I shall come with you."

She followed a few yards behind and Nick Conklin advanced with a good deal more caution than he had at first intended. Exactly as indicated, they paced the eighty yards, and, just in front of them, by the side of a showcase, discovered a man stretched out in an easy-chair, apparently asleep. An electric torch lay by his side; his uniform coat was undone.

"Hullo there!" Nick cried.

There was no reply. He held out his hand to prevent her approaching more closely and pressed forward himself. His first sickly premonition had been correct. The watchman lay limply in his chair, with his throat cut from end to end. The blood was dripping down from his shirt on to the floor. The keys had slipped from his nerveless fingers. He was quite dead.

Nick's first instinct was to stoop down and pick up the keys. Almost as he did so, his sense of stupefaction passed. Life and understanding rushed swiftly once more through his brain. With the intuition of a man who has hunted and been hunted, he knew that he was not alone, that some one was watching or hiding within a few feet of him. He tossed the keys to the girl, but his eyes searched always the empty spaces, and his gun was in his hand.

"Let yourself out and get clear away from this," he whispered. "Don't wait for me. I can look after myself."

"Behind you, Nick!" she shouted. "Jump! Quick!"

Her warning saved his life without a doubt, for the murderous-looking jimmy, which had been aimed straight at the back of his head, only grazed his shoulder. In a second, he was grappling with a fierce and brawny aggressor, a stronger and a heavier man than he, but, as he knew in a single second, his easy prey. He almost laughed as he felt the old-fashioned clutch, the fumbling for the knife, the slight drawing back to stab. No easy victory of that sort was to come to the unknown, but prompt and merciless disaster at the hands of his smaller antagonist. He felt himself spinning, his ankle twisted, his wrist broken, his neck burning, himself gasping for breath. He fell upon the hard floor with a sickening crash and for many a long day afterwards in hospital he lay and wondered.

Nick of New York, of fighting fame, was himself again now, with a vengeance. He crouched on the scene of his triumph, his gun firmly poised in his hand, he himself partially protected by the stone pillar behind which his recent victim had lurked. He knew perfectly well that there was an other marauder to be dealt with, and he knew where he was hiding. He was behind the showcase on the other side of the watchman, and Nick waited feverishly for his head or his arm or any part of him to emerge. His blood was up now and he was ready almost to kill. A few yards away, the girl was still standing, intensely alert, ready to call out if he needed direction. Amazingly, she had lit a cigarette.

"Where's Passiter?" he cried.

A low whistle from half a dozen yards away answered him. Just then the thing for which he had prayed happened. The man whose hiding place he had correctly surmised slowly thrust his hand, a revolver clenched in his fingers, around the corner. Like a flash, Nick pulled the trigger of his gun, and almost simultaneously a yell of pain rang out, nearly drowning the crash of the weapon upon the hard floor. Nick stood upright.

"That's all, then!" he exclaimed. "Got what you wanted, Passiter?"

Passiter, from behind another showcase a few yards away, crept into evidence. Even in the dim light and behind the mask which he had hastily assumed he presented a somewhat shamefaced appearance. Nick pointed sternly to the ghastly vision of the watchman.

"Was that your work?" he demanded.

"Cross my heart, it wasn't," was the eager denial. "When I heard you calling to be let out down there, and he didn't move, I crept a little nearer along the side alley. At the same moment I saw what had happened to him and the other two at work. I'd have stopped your coming, if I could, but if I'd called out, they'd have got me sure."

Nick made no reply, but the girl's eyes flashed through the gloom.

"You had the drop on them," she reminded him coldly. "You could have forced their hands up."

"The light wasn't good enough for shooting," he muttered.

"Anyway, we're clearing out of here now," Nick declared. "Get what you want—and I should look sharp about it. This chap on the floor won't come to for half an hour yet. Let's have a look at the other one."

The man behind the showcase had fainted. Nick glanced at him and turned away. Passiter was already at work on the glass front.

"We're off, Passiter," he announced. "If you will take my advice, you'll get your job done quickly and follow. This isn't a healthy place for honest people."

Passiter chuckled as he removed the first square of glass....


Nick Conklin piloted his companion down the gloomy corridor, between two rows of frowning statues, and white-draped showcases. At the door he paused to select the key from the bunch be was carrying.

"East corridor number one. Here we are," he remarked, fitting it into the lock and turning it. "Now for a breath of fresh air, a long drink, and a smoke."

"Perhaps," the girl groaned, with a despairing look ahead.

Guarding their car, and awaiting their egress with obvious interest, were two stalwart policemen.

Not for one single second did Nick of New York permit himself to appear perturbed. He paused to light a cigarette, threw away the match, and approached the kerb.

"Good evening, Constable," he said pleasantly, as he opened the door of the car. "Glad to see you're keeping an eye on the little bus."

"One moment, sir," the man enjoined, stretching out his hand. "I should like to know what you were doing in the Museum at this hour of the night, or rather morning. Bit early for studying curios, isn't it?"

Nick's air of surprise was very well done indeed.

"Why on earth shouldn't I be in the Museum at any hour I please?" he retorted wonderingly. "It's my responsibility and I like to look up old Fawcett any time I'm passing late. He's getting a little ancient for his job."

"What is your name, sir, and what have you to do with the Museum?" his questioner persisted.

Nick glanced at the stripes on the man's cuffs.

"Why, don't you know me, Sergeant?" he demanded in surprise. "Marsden, my name is—Nick Marsden. I've been junior curator here for two years. Here's my card," he added, thrusting his hand into his pocket and producing one. "I don't know if it has my address on—Number 9, Basil Mansions. This is my sister. We've been dining down in Hammersmith and I thought we'd look in on our way home."

"Seems queer I don't know you by sight," the Sergeant demurred, withdrawing his hand, however, from the door.

The girl took her place at the driving scat and Nick settled himself down by her side.

"Well, take stock of me now, Sergeant," he invited cheerfully. "You'll know a good-looking fellow next time we meet. I hope it's when you're off duty, and we'll have a drink together. I know the rules and regulations, you see."

The man smiled and was on the point of saluting when the constable by his side whispered in his ear. Once more he approached the car window.

"Would there be any objection to my looking round inside?" he asked. "The constable here seems to think he heard some unusual noises and noticed some lights going on and off a short time ago."

"Not the slightest objection in the world," Nick declared, promptly handing over the keys. "There certainly were lights—we couldn't have looked around without—but no noises that I know of. Leave them for Mr. Marsden at Number 9, Basil Mansions, will you? That's all right, Martha," he added, to the girl who was sitting tensely by his side. "Step on it. Passiter's away by now."

This was not altogether the sergeant's idea, but whilst he hesitated, the car was around the corner. It was well away past the Hyde Park Hotel when the police whistles began to blow.

The car was raced away from the back entrance of Flood's Club almost before their feet had touched the ground. Nick Conklin looked after it curiously.

"Exactly what happens to it?" he asked.

"It goes to earth, all right," she answered. "The club owns a garage not a mile away. The driver signalled to have the number plate changed by pressing an electric button, before he started. When he gets to the garage, there will he men waiting for just such a message as I sent. The top will come off and go down into the cellar, and there will be another one on within ten minutes. Even in its disguised condition, the car is then run down into an inner garage that only one or two people about the place know of.... We have time for one quick drink with Charlie if you like. Afterwards we've got to go upstairs."

"What about our ghosts?" he asked.

She made no reply for a moment. They ran lightly upstairs and entered the bar. He gave an order whilst she glanced down at the table through a small window of observation.

"Passiter isn't back," she announced, "but our dummies are there."

She hurried to a small house telephone and spoke a few words. Presently the telephone boy appeared, and the young woman and man who were seated at the table rose and left the room. Conklin watched them with admiration in his eyes.

"They're jolly good!" he declared. "I should have thought I had been looking in a mirror."

"Finish your drink quickly," she begged. "You have to be introduced into more of our secrets now."

They climbed up another flight of stairs and entered a room full of cupboards but with no other indication of its purpose. A young man with black curly hair and hooked nose, who was reading a paper by the fire, jumped up at their entrance. She addressed him quickly.

"Mr. Conklin," she explained, "was seen face to face, but in an overcoat and wearing his hat. Evening clothes, I should think, but with a long coat. Mrs. Burrows in her room?"

"She's there, all right," the young man replied. "Come into this dressing room, sir. I'll have you fixed up in five minutes."

He was as good as his word. Conklin looked in the glass and laughed.

"Better let me make you up a little," the young man suggested.

"Not on your life!" Nick refused hastily. "I don't know myself now. The man must have seen I was wearing a black tie and not this florid white atrocity. My hair is all different and these glasses make me look like the devil. I'll have the things out of my pocket."

"Better leave them with me, sir," the young man urged. "They'll be quite safe."

"No, I'll take my things," Conklin finally decided.

"What's this that looks like a locket?" the young man asked curiously.

"Inside," Conklin confided with a grin, "it's an American Police badge. The poor chap it belonged to won't want it any more."

At the table downstairs, everyone was very gay. It was contrary to etiquette, however, to make any remarks upon the changed appearance of the two latest arrivals.

"Any one who beats me in the great world's competition," Passiter, refreshed with wine and sandwiches, boasted, "has got to get a long way on the right side of Amos Grimmett."

"Let's see them," Grant suggested.

Passiter hesitated. It was an hour after his return from Kensington and nothing had happened. He thrust his hand into his trousers' pocket and opened his palm. Two magnificent rubies and one great diamond reposed there—all three of incredible size.

"These rubies were the eyes of King Mustaphy, whoever he may have been," he quoted, "and the diamond the heart of his queen, insured by the British Government, to whom they were lent, for thirty thousand pounds."

"Don't you think," Martha asked coldly, "that at least a share of that belongs to the man who did the work?"

Nick of New York waved the suggestion on one side and shook his head.

"I'm no poacher," he declared. "When my time comes, I'll bring in my own stuff."</story>