<story title="MAT'S LUCK" date="1929">
MARTHA Dring leaned from her armchair and gazed over at the trees on the other side of Berkeley Square. A misguided thrush was hopping about on the railed-in lawn. Fragments of blue sky were visible ahead. One ridiculous butterfly was hovering about the shrubs. She removed her cigarette from her mouth and turned her attention to the man opposite.

"I have decided how I should like to spend the day," she announced. "I should like to motor down to Brighton."

Eustace Grant stared at her in dismay. He was very immaculate in his grey tweed suit, Bond Street linen, tie and handkerchief to match. His brown shoes were just old enough and perfectly polished. No wonder that, so far as appearance went, he was rather the despair of his present associates.

"But my dear Miss Dring!" he expostulated. "I thought that our day was planned. You were to drive me round the Park in my new coupé, lunch here, discuss our forthcoming schemes this afternoon, and dine at Flood's."

She shuddered.

"A perfectly horrible programme," she objected.

A dull tinge of colour showed under the fading sunburn of his checks. He was beginning to realise that this girl could anger him more than any other person in the world.

"It is too late to start for Brighton," he remarked coldly.

"It is not," she contradicted. "It is eleven o'clock, and in your Rolls-Royce we can be down there in two hours. Order the car, please. I have brought my motoring coat and I should like to start as soon as possible."

"Do you know why I gave in to you to-day?" he asked, half an hour later, as they were rushing through the country southwards.

"Perhaps you realised that I should probably have gone home if you hadn't," she remarked calmly. "I didn't want you to give in. I didn't wish to come to your house this morning. You told me that you had something very important to say before you made your plans for New York, and here I am."

He had made up his mind to restrain himself and be did. He had never wholly determined what her attitude towards life really was. There was a certain fineness about her which seemed absolutely incompatible with her present tastes.

"To me, it is very important indeed," he confided. "I wanted to ask you to come to New York with me."

She stared at him in very genuine astonishment.

"With the gang, I suppose you mean?"

"No. With me. Married, if you like. So far as I know, I have no wife alive at the moment."

For a few seconds she continued to stare at him in stupefaction immeasurable. The lines of bewilderment were deeply traced in her fine, olive forehead, and the pupils of her beautiful eyes were distended. Then, all at once, she seemed to realise that be was in earnest. The corners of her lips broke away. She threw herself back amongst the cushions and laughed until the tears came into her eyes. Perhaps if she could have seen his face at that moment, she would have realised that she was driving with a possible murderer.

"Major Grant," she said, "I gave you credit for—for a greater sense of humour."

"I fail to see the connection," was his icy rejoinder.

She dried her eyes and sat up, pulled the rug over her knees, and settled down to talk.

"Let me speak plainly," she begged, "to justify myself to myself, and in order that there may be no future misunderstanding. I met you at a studio tea, and I was attracted because I was told that you were a suspected criminal, and for no other reason."

"Are you going to put me in my place?" he asked dangerously.

"Wait," she insisted. "I was fed up with everything. I wanted sensations which decent life couldn't give me, and I confess that I always have been, and am now, fearfully attracted by crime and the psychology of criminals. You showed me—you still show me—ugly but dramatic phases of life which fascinate me. I am so far involved that I suppose I may be counted amongst the criminal classes myself, but marriage with any one of you, any physical contact of any sort whatsoever—why, the very idea of it revolts me! How you could ever have thought it possible is beyond my understanding. ... I am not apologising. You asked for it and you've got it. Never allude to the subject again, please."

Eustace Grant twisted his cigar around with thoughtful care and, leaning back, looked steadily upwards. The budding branches of the wood through which they were passing, bent back by a sudden April gale, and disclosing fleecy fragments of white cloud driven across a background of blue sky, had no message for him. Neither was he conscious of the elusive wafts of perfume from a bank of violets which came to them from a sheltered and mossy bank in the hollow of the hill, so warm and sweet that the girl by his side almost forgot the ugliness of the moment. He was restrainedly, viciously silent and detached, and to his companion there was something far more menacing than the threat of words in his speechlessness. . . .

Arrived at their destination, they drew up in front of one of the smaller hotels, and he handed her out with ostentatious politeness.

"Luncheon in half an hour's time," he proposed. "I shall meet a few friends at a rendezvous near here."

She nodded.

"I shall walk along the promenade," she decided.

He disappeared within the portals of a neighbouring and world-renowned hostelry and the girl crossed the street to the front. Even on such a blatant place as the Brighton promenade she found acquaintances, and had to stop frequently to answer enquiries. Then, when swinging along, with the sea wind full against her, inspired by some of the outdoor passions of her earlier and healthier girlhood, with the colour stealing back to her cheeks and a clearer light to her eyes, she came face to face with a man being wheeled along in a bath chair. She looked at him at first with the ordinary pity of a healthy person towards an invalid, and then in horror. Notwithstanding his unnaturally white cheeks, his rimmed eyes, and apparently shrunken frame, she recognised him at once. She motioned to the man who was pushing the bath chair to stop.

"Mr. Dickins!" she exclaimed, holding out her hand. "Oh, I'm so sorry. I had no idea you'd been as ill as this."

"I'm not so bad as I look," he assured her, smiling. "Every one here is so terribly healthy that one looks ill by contrast."

"It was only the other day," she confided, "that I read in the paper about your resignation through ill health."

"Ill health and general incompetence," he sighed. "How's business?"

She flushed slightly.

"Quite flourishing, thank you."

"Someone had pretty good luck with Moses Reinberg's diamonds," he remarked. "The thieves got clear away without leaving a clue, I hear."

"So one read."

"And only one murder," Dickins continued, pausing a moment for breath. "Only one poor fellow who wasn't allowed a chance to defend himself, butchered. Did you read about it?"

"I never read the papers."

"It seems that he saw lights from the windows, ran up to do his duty, and was shot down in cowardly fashion from behind," Dickins went on. "The trouble is that he was only thirty-eight years old—a young fellow who did fine things in the war, married, with three children. No fight, just butchered. It makes me mad down here to feel that I can't get my fingers on the throat of the coward who did it. Don't you feel like that, Miss Dring?"

She felt his burning eyes upon her and her knees began to tremble.

"Oh, well, no one knows exactly what happened," she reminded him. "He was doing his duty, I suppose. No use getting maudlin about it."

"All the same," he rejoined, looking back from the sea, where his eyes had rested for a moment, "don't you agree with me, Miss Dring, that all the excitement, the romantic thrill of crime which so many members of the general public nowadays seems to feel, must turn into dust and ashes at the mere thought of a cowardly murder like that?"

"Yes," she almost screamed, "of course! Mr. Dickins, I'm afraid I'm letting you talk too much. I must go now. There is one question I should like to ask you though, if you wouldn't mind. It's terribly personal and a little incriminating, I suppose."

He waved away the bath-chair attendant for a moment. She waited until the man was out of hearing and then continued:

"Did you get into trouble, the night you took the jewels away from me, for not bringing me in? Had that anything to do with your leaving the Force?"

"Nothing whatever," he assured her. "I had a perfectly free hand then. I didn't see that you could do us much good and I thought—I hoped it might be a lesson to you. Prison is pretty well the end of all things for a civilised person, you know."

"Are you living near here?" she asked abruptly.

"I have a little cottage on the downs," he told her. "Sunlight Lodge, South Downs."

"Can I come and see you one day?"

"Whenever you can tell me what I should like to hear," he answered gravely.


Eustace Grant was elaborately polite but silent throughout the service of luncheon. During the drive home, he made only one remark.

"I hear that your friend Detective Dickins was on the promenade in a bath chair, all crocked up," he confided.

"I saw him," she replied. "Poor fellow, he looked ghastly ill."

For the first time during the day be smiled.

"So they tell me. The best news I've heard for ages. I'd read in the papers that he'd had the push, but one never knows what to believe."

"You're rather by way of being afraid of him, aren't you?" she asked.

He winced a little.

"With our organisation we don't need to fear any one," he declared. "All the same, Dickins was dangerous. He was one of the few men I should have put away any time I could have done so safely."

"'Safely' meaning, I suppose, without any risk to yourself?"

"Naturally. When you're at war, you don't fight a duel with your enemy. You kill him whenever you can get him."

"It sounds a little like murder," she shivered.

"Murder is all part of the game, as you know quite well," he rejoined coolly.

He directed the chauffeur to drive to her studio in Chelsea and politely assisted her to alight.

"Are you never going to speak to me like a human being again?" she asked, smiling at him from the pavement.

There was a subtle menace underlying his terse reply.

"I'm making up my mind what to say," he answered.


From the moment when Martha Dring entered the club that night, and swung herself on to a high stool at the bar, she shared in the general consciousness that some portentous event was casting its shadow over the place. Even the downstair waiters, who were supposed to know nothing of what was going on amongst the élite, were whispering together in little groups. Charles, the barman, was so occupied in listening to his master's eloquent but inaudible tirade that he had not even noticed her entrance. Grant, Passiter and Bradman were seated still in their outdoor habiliments at their cocktail table, without a glass in front of them, having apparently even forgotten to order drinks. The girl tapped lightly upon the counter.

"A dry Martini, Charles," she ordered.

The man returned to his duties at once. With the skill of a necromancer, he began to juggle with the bottles and a silver shaker. In a matter of seconds, a tapering glass filled with cloudy amber liquid, an olive reposing at the bottom and a delicate morsel of lemon hanging over the side, was gently propelled towards her.

"What's the matter with everyone to-night, Charles?" she asked, as she lit a cigarette.

The inimitable Charles glanced around and wiped a spot off the counter with his cloth.

"Everyone is a little tired, madam, I think," he replied. "Sunday is usually a day here when our clients are not feeling quite themselves."

Martha made no remark. She watched Charles with curious eyes, as he busied himself about the bar. He was a powerful-looking man, neatly dressed, with pink-and-white complexion, eyes always clear, notwithstanding his terrible hours. His flaxen hair was carefully brushed. There was not a wrinkle upon his face and his general appearance of ingenuousness was almost irresistible. Yet he was supposed to know more about the middle and upper-class underworld of London than any other man breathing. She studied him reflectively.

"Charles," she enquired, "what do you think of this sort of life?"

"Madam," he replied, after a moment's pause, "not much. It's like this, though, with me. At any other club or restaurant in Europe, I might earn as much as twenty pounds a week, if I was lucky. Here, with special tips and commissions, I earn fifty, and I have earned more. This place will come to an end some day, of course. Then I shall go and live in the country somewhere, where I can garden, and walk in the mornings, and take my gun, and shoot a rabbit or two after tea."

"A quaint change of habits and life, Charles," she remarked.

He looked around him, and his eyes rested by chance upon the four holes in the grotesque bodies of the men upon the wall, made by Nick Conklin of New York.

"Is there anyone who goes on with this life who isn't in too thick to get out?" he asked softly. "I don't think so."

"What about me?"

"Madam, you are the only lady who comes near this place, so I don't know that yon count with the rest of them. I will say this for Major Grant," he went on; "he won't have any ordinary women around, or in the distance. It shows what a clever man he is. It's a pleasure to serve you, Miss Dring, as I think you know, but every time I see you come in, I'm sorry. You've satisfied your curiosity, if that's what brought you. I should cut it out now—and Major Eustace Grant too," he added, in something less than a whisper.

She smiled at him delightfully, and when she smiled in that fashion, Martha Dring was a very beautiful girl.

"You're a dear, Charles!" she said. "Get me a packet of cigarettes. And now we're alone, tell me what's wrong to-night?"

"Midget Mat's going out," he announced softly, "and I don't think the governor much fancies his chances."


Half an hour later she descended the stairs and crossed the room towards the famous round table. Eustace Grant gave a little shiver of pent-up feeling as she swung past her accustomed place next to him and sat down between Nicholas Conklin and little Mat. George, the waiter, with set, unsmiling face, leaned over her chair.

"Caviar or oysters, madam?"

She gave her order.

"Why is everyone so serious about Mat's going out to-night?" she asked coolly. Eustace Grant replied.

"In the first place," he explained, "let me say that I am the person who is making the objections. Mat is, I admit, the finest cat bugler in the world, but this is not a cat burglar job; he has not been used to working single-handed, and I don't feel that he has had enough experience of indoor work. Then I don't like his ghost. He is half a head taller than Mat, at least, and he is a long way from getting down to the weight."

"Cut it out," Mat growled, swallowing the remains of a tumbler of champagne. "I've got to have my chance in Nick Conklin's show, haven't I, and my chance came to-night. I saw the old folks down at Brighton to-day, and, better still, I saw Dickins, the only tec who's ever put my wind up, in a bath chair, looking as sick as hell. . . . So long, you fellows! Here comes my call. See you in about an hour."

The uniformed page boy from the telephone leaned over his chair and whispered the familiar announcement.

"Wanted on the telephone, sir."

Mat swaggered down the room and a minute later his place was taken by a very creditable replica.


Luck! The luck of the underworld! The luck of the prepared against the unprepared!

"Mat's luck!" that wizened little mortal chuckled to himself, as he sped down the broad front stairs of the great silent house in Belgrave Square. They were stirring uneasily in the upper regions, but what matter? He was approaching freedom now, with flying footsteps. In those last stretches, he was conscious of a sense of vastness around him, perhaps because he himself was so small. Here and there, the massive frames of the oil paintings glittered through the semi-darkness and rows of pale faces glistened. He never paused to reflect that in his pockets reposed the jewels which had decked those flesh-painted bosoms, those tapering necks. . . . More sounds in the gloomy spaces above! What did it matter? The front door ahead, and outside the most wonderful get-away ever dreamed of—Ginger Ellis, Costigan's first lieutenant, with his thirty horse-power bicycle and side-car, guaranteed to go through any traffic sixty miles an hour, through a market town on Saturdays, or up the side of a house if necessary. Hurrah! Finished with the stairs! The floor—how he could dance on it!—smooth with the wear of years, slippery as generations of housemaids' arms could make it. Across it he sped to the ponderous front door. The well-oiled bolts slid back in his hands. The key turned as easily as butter. Inch by inch, he opened it, loving the wet wind which streamed in upon his heated cheeks. Another inch or two—he peered out!

"Gawd!" he muttered.

For the first time, Mat's luck faltered. Exactly opposite, on the other side of the way, was a fully uniformed policeman—magnificent, portentous, slow-moving. His heart for a moment sank. He closed the door softly and turned around, crouching on one knee, his wicked-looking automatic gripped in his right hand. The pursuing fools had turned on the electric light over their heads. They were asking for it. He, himself, was as yet out of sight. He waited till they were halfway down the stairs—four of them, two apparently with some sort of guns. He peered out again into the street, risking his own life that he might not take theirs. The policeman had moved a few paces on—but not far enough. He closed the door. What must be, must! He levelled his gun and pulled the trigger. A miss! He fired again. Sickening! Not his fault—the fault of these interfering blunderers who stood between an honest marauder and his living. The man on the stairs spun round, clutched for the banisters, and, missing them, lost his footing and fell crashing down, to lie a doubled-up heap upon the floor. There was a shriek of pain, a shout from the other men as they caught sight of Mat. A moment's agonised silence. Once more he pushed open the door. The policeman was within a half a dozen yards of the corner. He closed it again stealthily. No risks after what had happened. There was a blaze of illumination now in the hall. The other man with a gun, a striped-waistcoated footman, was rushing forward. Well, he was asking for it! Let him down gently. Mat picked him off about the knees, and the man collapsed with a great squat bump upon a rug. And now for his rush! He sprang up and opened the door, turning round for a moment to glance at his pursuers. A grey-haired man in pyjamas had picked up one of the guns and let fly. Mat felt a sharp pain in his arm, a shock as though a bullet had flattened itself upon the metal of his braces. The policeman was out of sight now. Bang went the door. Mat laughed as he leaped from the pavement into the carriage attached to the motor bicycle.

"Like hell, Ginger!" he cried. "They're after me!"

The shadowy figure by the side of the machine jumped into the saddle, but even as he did so he groaned. The engine was beating stoutly, but Mat knew well that something was wrong.

"Back tyre gone, Mat. There's a taxicab at the corner. Sit tight and I'll get you there."

Floppity flop—flop—flop! Gone those hopes of a swift ride to safety. The front door behind was thrown open. There was a stream of light, some one yelling for the police. Floppity flop—flop—flop. Nearly over at that corner! Groaning and humping, they crossed the road. Mat's luck was gone, hut Mat was still a man.

"Got your story right?" he snapped out.

"No one can touch it," was the swift response. "I know the housemaid next door. I was waiting for her."

Mat's luck was in again. The taxicab man had seen them coming and had started his engine.

"Charing Cross by Pall Mall," Mat ordered, throwing himself in.

The man shoved in his gears. They were away. By the grace of Providence, the chauffeur heard nothing of the shouting behind. Mat did though, and the sweat poured down his face. He wiped it off with his handkerchief, let down both windows, and lay back. He lay back and panted.

After they passed Buckingham Palace, he became himself again. They were unchecked. The luck held. They sped along the great broad thoroughfare. Just before turning into Pall Mall, Mat stopped the chauffeur. The man pulled up under a tree.

"What is it, sir?" he enquired, opening the door with his left band and leaning around.

Mat stepped lightly on to the road. There was nothing coming either way and the darkness was intense.

"Driver," he said earnestly, "I want to ask you a question. Do you think you would know me again if you saw me?"

"Of course I should," the man assured him, without reflection. "I should know your ugly little face anywhere. You used to ride for Loughton's stable before you got into trouble, and, though I was badly wanting a fare, I ain't easy in my mind as to what you were doing when I picked you up."

"Sorry," Mat snapped, as he drew his automatic from under his coat. "You've asked for it."

He blew the man's brains out from a couple of feet away. Then, with a shuddering little cry, he went slinking through the shadows into Pall Mall.


The bell under the table! A shiver of excitement ran through the assembled party. In due course, the telephone boy made his appearance and addressed the ghost.

"Wanted on the telephone, Mr. Sarson, sir," he announced.

The pseudo-Midget Mat arose with a mumbled word of apology and departed. The little company who were left had been through many such scenes before without turning a hair, but some demon of unrest seemed to-night to have them in its clutch. Even Eustace Grant was nervously folding and unfolding his napkin. Martha, sitting apparently as quiet as a statue, was tearing her handkerchief to pieces under the table. Passiter was drinking fiercely, but the hand which held his glass was shaking.

"Mat's through all right then," he muttered.

"What are we all crazy about?" Grant queried severely. "Welcome the boy back, but don't forget he's only been gone a few seconds. Don't, for God's sake, look as though anything could have happened."

Mat, at any rate, forgot nothing. Up the room he came, smiling a greeting here and there, his fingers tucked into his jacket pocket exactly as he had noticed the dummy's. He slipped into the vacant place with perfect naturalness. But when he was once there, his tone was thick and choked.

"Give me a bottle of wine," he demanded—"a whole bottle."

They filled and refilled a huge brandy glass, and he drank and drank and drank. When he set down his glass, his eyes were like pools of fire.

"You're beat. You're beat, all of you. You're beat!" he cried in a muffled voice, leaning across the table. "You think nothing of us, Nick of New York, but you've got to pay. You others can try pocket-picking in Swan and Edgar's. You'd have kept me back, Boss Grant, and you, Ted Passiter. You never did a job like this."

The room was nearly empty, and the gems trickled through his fingers on to the tablecloth—diamonds and pearls which had hung on the necks of queens, jewels around which history had been written. Something ghoul-like, some devilish quality of another world crept into and distorted the faces of the men who pored over them. Then, if Grant's heavy hand had not closed with apparent playfulness upon her mouth, the girl's shriek would have rung out through the room. She pointed dumbly. Their eyes followed the direction of her finger. Slowly, on the left-hand side of his shirt front, a small red stain was growing larger and larger. Mat himself looked down. He saw it there and he knew.

"Hell, I'm going!" he muttered. "They got me, after all!"

There was a door leading into the musicians' gallery within a couple of feet of where he was seated. They pushed him through it, and the few loiterers in the restaurant imagined that he was drunk. But before his feet had touched the first of the stairs, Mat was dead!</story>