<story title="THE BRAGGARTS' CONFERENCE" date="1929">
EIGHT men were seated drinking cocktails around a table set a little way back from the bar in the wickedest, most expensive, and most exclusive club in London. You could buy cocaine, opium, or any other form of drug you fancied from that innocent-looking, pink-cheeked barman behind the counter. You could obtain addresses on a card which would enable you to visit the most depraved haunts in the East or West End of London, and indulge in any form of vice which appealed to you. You could engage a private room upstairs and rob your dearest friend, or any one else whose skill you fancied was inferior to your own, of thousands, and you could knock him on the head with less fear of disagreeable consequences than anywhere else in the metropolis. But you could not cross the portals after eight o'clock without having donned evening clothes, nor could you remain a member for one day after January first in any year without your subscription of forty guineas having been paid.

Major Eustace Grant, D.S.O., who was Chairman of the Committee, and a very autocratic ruler of the place, tapped lightly with his forefinger upon the table and held the newspaper which he had been studying a little closer to him.

"This should interest us," he remarked. "The paragraph is entitled—'Changes at Scotland Yard.' It proceeds as follows:


"We understand that in consequence of the great dissatisfaction recently expressed in the columns of our leading newspapers, in the Houses of Parliament, and throughout the country, drastic changes in the personnel and management at Scotland Yard are contemplated by the authorities. Amongst others who are relinquishing their posts, we learn that the resignation of Detective Inspector Dickins, on account of ill health, was last week accepted by the Chief Commissioner."


Grant's nearest neighbour, a man named Passiter, a long, evil-looking person, who had the reputation of being the best dressed and the worst moralled man in London, smiled reflectively.

"Their shrewdest man, I thought," he remarked.

Grant tapped a cigarette upon the table. He was one of those people whose features are good-looking enough in repose but whose smile is disfiguring. He smiled now.

"Dickins was the man who sent Martha Dring home, although he found the Rosenthal jewels on her," he reminded them. "I should think that's what they gave him the sack for."

"I wonder why he did it," Mat Sarson, a thin, wizen-faced little man, who had once been a jockey, speculated. "It isn't like a Scotland Yard bull to part with any one he's once got his hands on."

Costigan, chief of the gangsters, who had been invited up to have a cocktail, grinned.

"We must have been a sight, coming up the square, when he left," he declared. "He'd never have got away with her. Here she is. You can ask her for yourself. Good-bye, all! My dinner's waiting."

He took his leave as the girl swung in through an unsuspected door. She was dressed in black, her dark hair parted in the middle and brushed smoothly away from her forehead, her face unrelieved by any touch of colour. Her shoes were rubber-shod and she moved noiselessly. There was something a little ghostly about her appearance.

"Working to-night, Miss Dring?" Passiter asked her.

She nodded carelessly.

"I am taking Jo's place if I'm wanted," she yawned. "He ran his car into a brick wall last night. No one's any use at a get-away if they can't see in the dark. Charles, a dry Martini."

She sat down at the table and lit a cigarette.

"I've often meant to ask you," Grant remarked, "but you haven't been round much lately, why do you suppose Dickins didn't take you in from his house that night in Pembroke Square?"

She held out her hand for her cocktail and sipped it thoughtfully.

"I was never quite sure myself," she admitted. "I think he sensed that the gang were close by."

Passiter pushed the newspaper towards her.

"He's got the chuck, anyhow," he announced. "It may have been over your job."

She read the paragraph and thrust the paper away without comment. The door facing them was suddenly opened and Angus Flood, a neat, debonair-looking man, the manager and proprietor of the club, ushered in a visitor. The seven men at the round table were interested, for the circumstance was unusual. The visitor was a man of apparently youthful middle age, clean-shaven, with very little hair, which was parted in the middle. His bearing, although assured, was unobtrusive, and his features lacked the hardness of most of the casual visitors to Flood's Club. His dinner clothes were well cut but a little unusual in design. His collar was of the sort generally affected by artists, and his black tie long and drooping. Angus Flood, with his hand upon his companion's arm, brought him across to the table where the seven men were seated.

"Gentlemen," he announced, "I have to introduce to you a very distinguished visitor—one who hopes to become a member of the club."

There was a brief silence whilst they looked him over. He endured their scrutiny with good-humoured composure and he seemed to fully return their interest. Grant leaned forward towards him, but he did not at once invite him to sit down.

"You must excuse us, sir," he said, "if we display a little diffidence in the matter of visitors who are not, as a matter of fact, eligible to enter the club, even when introduced by our host. We are a club of peculiar people, with peculiar aims in life, and we want no strangers amongst us. Many distinguished men throughout Europe have endeavoured to take up a membership here out of curiosity. We do not welcome such."

"I am not of that order," the stranger assured them. "Mr. Flood should perhaps have mentioned my name. I am well enough known to him."

"I kept it as a pleasant surprise," Angus Flood Intervened. "Gentlemen all," he went on, pointing them out in turn—"Major Eustace Grant, our President; Mr. Passiter, our Vice-President; Mr. Lane; Mr. Sarson; Mr. Rubens; Mr. Frisby; Dr. Bradman; and, in a place by herself, as our only lady member, Miss Martha Dring. This is Mr. Nicholas Conklin from the other side of the water, better known to you perhaps as the world-famed Nick of New York."

The little company was frankly stupefied. The newcomer was without doubt a man of unusual personality, but there was nothing in his physique or bearing to suggest one of the most bloodthirsty murderers and most dangerous criminals of the age. They stared at him almost incredulously. Then gradually they began to realise the strength of the thin, fiercely straight mouth, the immovable jaw, the steely eyes which were already clashing a response to their challenge. No one, perhaps, in the room, seemed more nonplussed than the pale-faced but muscular-looking waiter, who had been handing Martha Dring her cocktail. He seemed scarcely to be able to remove his eyes from the newcomer and his lips murmured his name in awed syllables.

"Nick of New York—Nick Conklin!"

"You must pardon our surprise," Eustace Grant observed suavely. "We understood that that admirable force, the police of this country, who mean well, although their energies are so frequently misdirected, had intervened to prevent your projected visit, and that you were, in fact, in Paris."

"Does it take you as long as that to say anything every time you speak?" the stranger asked, a little irritably. "The police tried to stop me all right, but I have a clean bill of health and I go where I please. Do I sit down with you or don't I?"

Passiter, the wickedest looking of the assembled company of sinners, with his narrow face, his low ford lead, overhung jaw, and vicious mouth, intervened.

"Let me speak a word," he begged. "If you once sit down, you are a member of the club and one of us. Nick of New York is welcome."

"Fair talk," the newcomer admitted. "Here you are—passport, papers, sheaves of them."

"They lied at Southampton and Cherbourg," Grant murmured. "Not that you have any object in lying to us, though," he added meditatively.

"Wait," the stranger enjoined.

He stepped back into the middle of the room and looked intently at the amazing tapestried decoration of futurist design which hung upon the four walls—naked men engaged in gyrations around stooping women. For a moment he seemed In be measuring the distance with his eye. Then he came back to the table and miracles happened. One or two of them declared that they caught the occasional flash of steel under his coat; others fancied that they had a glimpse of his white fingers. Anyhow, he stood with immovable face and body before his inquisitors. In little more than as many seconds there were four sharp reports like the faint explosion of a boy's popgun, four rather more formidable stabs of flame, four black spots in the middle of each of the bodies of the four men.

"Did I miss one?" the performer asked, drawing a case from his pocket and lighting a cigarette.

There was a tense but brief silence. The barman, who had disappeared precipitately, lifted his head from behind his counter; Angus Flood, who had been crouching with a stool held in front of him, looked out over its top. The men at the round table, with one accord, hastened to the walls. There was the same little black hole in the centre of each of the bodies of the four painted figures, penetrating at least two inches into the panelled walls, a small black aperture, deadly and sinister. They returned to the table.

"Nine dry Martinis," Eustace Grant ordered from the waiter who was standing by his side, still dazed. "Mr. Conklin, I trust that you will join us for cocktails and dinner. For once we find that report has not lied or exaggerated. We always understood that you were the finest gunman in your country. I have never seen such shooting in my life."


Dinner was served a little later at the round table in the restaurant underneath the musicians' gallery which was always reserved for Eustace Grant and his friends. As a rule, they were moderate drinkers, especially the nights when there was work to be done, but on this occasion the champagne was drunk in magnums, and afterwards heavy demands were made upon the Napoleon brandy and the special Romeo and Juliet cigars. The conversation turned towards individual exploits. Mr. Nicholas Conklin, who had the air of having drunk a great deal of wine, was inclined to be boastful.

"You chaps are all right," he declared, leaning hack in his place of honour at the much envied round table. "I'd like to know something, though. What's the slickest single-handed job any of you ever did?"

Alcoholic loquacity had its limit at Flood's Club. There was a slightly uneasy silence. Everyone looked around at the sprinkling of guests occupying the adjacent tables. George, the special waiter for their own table, with a napkin tucked under his arm, was listening intently, but no one else seemed interested.

"Say, this joint is all right, isn't it?" Nick of New York asked querulously. "I've always understood that you chaps ran it and could do what you liked with it. I'll give you a start, anyway."

He thrust his hand into his pocket and produced and laid upon the table an exquisite platinum watch, on the large side, but marvellously thin. He touched a spring and the back flew open.

"Read that," he invited with a complacent gesture.

They all leaned forward and passed it from hand lo hand. The inscription was cut into the metal and was sufficiently distinct:


"Presented to President Warren
by
a few of his old Classmates,
a slight token of their deep
admiration and respect."


There was a list of names on each side which the world who knew anything of Wall Street, or of American sport, read with respect.

"How did you come by this?" Passiter enquired.

Nick of New York laughed softly.

"How did I come by it?" he repeated. "How do we any of us come by our trophies? I took it from the President's pocket."

"I thought the President was always surrounded by detectives," Martha Dring murmured.

"So he is. So he was," was the boastful acknowledgment. "There were six around him when I took it. I did it for a bet of twenty-thousand dollars with Ed Dwyer of New York, and for the same bet I promised to put it back again any day you like when I return to the States. I'm not proud of the job. I just mentioned it because, in a way, it's unusual."

"Why aren't you proud of it?" Mat Sarson demanded. "It seems to me a creditable piece of work."

"Too near pickpocketing for my taste," Conklin confided. "Just now I'd rather hear some of you others talk."

Passiter tossed off the remainder of his glass of brandy, waved George the waiter on one side, and leaned across the table.

"Did you ever hear of the Martin's Bank robbery at Charing Cross?" he asked.

There was a very real flash of interest in the eyes of Nick of New York. The robbery had made history in the profession and the news of it had been bruited all over the world. It had been the subject of many a sad conversation between Subcommissioner Larwood and Detective Dickins.

"That was a tough affair," Passiter continued, his mouth opening in an evil grin and his ill-formed teeth showing more clearly. "I worked it out from beginning to end. We cleared up thirty-three thousand pounds in notes and securities and there was never an arrest."

"Marvellous!" Nicholas Conklin exclaimed, in a tone of genuine admiration. "Some fighting too, wasn't there?"

"There would have been more," Passiter admitted, "but only one of the police who rushed the place had a gun. There were three cashiers in the bank to be dealt with, beside the porter who was closing the door. We'd have given them a show, but one of them was shouting like hell, so out the lot had to go. We'd got the stuff all ready when the police rushed us. They asked for what they got and they got it—hot lead from a steady hand. I saw to that. Afterwards we just stepped into three taxis and drove quietly away. Five men we put out that day—and the police are still guessing."

"You're wonderful fellows," Nicholas Conklin acknowledged. "It's great, too, to have a place where you can talk things over like this. To my mind, half the pleasure of a job is looking back after it's all finished. I suppose every one here is to be trusted."

Eustace Grant smiled.

"You don't quite understand the nature of this place," he confided. "The restaurant down here has nothing to do with the club. It's open to the general public, in fact, but for all its de luxe appointments, it is really a den of thieves. I don't suppose there's a soul in this room who hasn't been in trouble, or asked for it, at some time or another during his life."

"What about the waiters? Your own particular one, for instance?"

"Ours is a new hand," Eustace Grant admitted, "but he's just done five years for a job in Brewster's gang, without a squeal. We look after that sort of man for the rest of his life. Flood took him on as soon as he was satisfied and gave him our table as a special honour."

"You're amongst the big pots, you know," Bradman, a well-dressed man of middle height, with tired eyes and drawn cheeks, drawled. "There isn't a person here who wouldn't be gratified if he could qualify for an invitation to sit at this table. The Major very seldom takes on any one fresh, though. We're as safe here as though we were locked up in our own parlour. Everyone knows who we are, and when there's a job done they can make a pretty good guess about it, but there's never been a squeal from this place yet. Folks who want to commit suicide choose an easier way."

Mr. Nicholas Conklin smiled appreciatively.

"Bully!" he exclaimed. "Let's have some more yarns then."

Eustace Grant glanced at his watch.

"Perhaps you'd like to see us in action?" he suggested, dropping his voice a little. "We can't offer to let you in on to-night's show—it's too small an affair—but you can come along and watch our work, if it would interest you. You can stay with Miss Dring here and have a dumb show. She's the best get-away we've got, although she's just had a rather narrow shave."

"Fine!" the American assented. "What about a rig-out?"

"We can arrange that for you upstairs," Grant replied. "All you want is an overcoat, a bowler hat and some gummies."

"You won't mind taking me on, Miss Dring?" Nick of New York asked.

She shrugged her shoulders and looked at him thoughtfully.

"I'll take you with pleasure," she said, "but I don't fancy you'll find it very exciting to-night. You won't forget that you're not in Chicago or New York, will you? Gunning's a little more expensive here and you're too clever at it."

He grinned as he rose to follow Grant out of the room.

"I was showing off just a bit," he admitted. "Don't you be afraid, young lady. I'm no cheap gangster, handling a weapon for the first time in my life. A man will have to ask for it before he gets anything from me."


Nick of New York found himself presently in a small, flagged square, narrowing into a long passage and bounded on the left by the side of a tall warehouse, and on the right by a ten-foot brick wall, separating it from a similar passage. At the far end was a gate, over which was suspended a gas-lamp. He looked up and down with the air of one used to such situations and anxious to gauge the possibilities of the present one.

"Rather hemmed in here, aren't we?" he queried.

"We are perfectly safe," she assured him. "There is no exit at all on this side from the showrooms where our men are. All we have to do is to watch the windows above our heads, get out of the way when they drop the bag, pick it up, and make for my car. I have the key of the gate there. I'd have left it open but a policeman passing might have noticed. If anything should go wrong, you must think and act for yourself, but don't shoot unless you have to."

"All right," he promised. "How long will they be?"

"Ten minutes, at least. We are all right to whisper hut you mustn't smoke."

"What is the stuff?" he asked.

"Diamonds. Up above us on the third floor is Moses Reinberg's office, the diamond merchant. He's just back from Brazil—been sorting his stuff for the last few days, and off to Amsterdam to-morrow. He's a perfect pig of a fellow, but I'm sorry for him to-night."

"Going to get it, is he?"

She nodded.

"I'm afraid so. Grant and Passiter are working and there's only one way of cleaning up things that they believe in. They haven't even troubled about masks to-night and that's a bad sign."

The cool wind blew down the alleyway. The girl lifted her beret and let it play upon her cheeks and in her hair. Her companion looked upward to the narrow strip of star-sprinkled sky. Together they listened.

"Queer life for a girl like you," he muttered. "You don't seem to be cut out for it, somehow."

"You don't know me," she whispered back. "I must have excitement. I can't rest without it. There's one sort I don't want, so I take this."

Then silence again. They were a long way off a main street, but every now and then they heard the steady rumble of traffic. As the time drew near, she was breathing quickly but softly. He watched the rise and fall of her slight bosom underneath her tightly drawn coat.

"Hell, waiting, isn't it?" he ventured.

"The worst agony in life," she murmured. "But, God, how one lives!"

A taxicab passed down the street, honking noisily. An unexpected aeroplane throbbed its lighted trail through the clouds above. Then again silence.

"I think I'm a little hysterical to-night," the girl faltered. "This waiting—it has never seemed so long."

He pressed her hand and, to his surprise, she yielded it gladly.

"Nothing to be jumpy about," he reassured her. "I'll take care of you."

"So you're Nick of New York!" she breathed. "You're not half such a brute as I fancied you."

"There are times," he confided, "when I am not a brute at all—when I feel just the same things as other men."

Quickly, and without warning, the tragic world opened its fire upon them. From the third storey of the blank building in the shadow of which they cowered they heard the dull yet ominous report of an automatic—once—twice. Then silence. Another and even more fearsome sound—the trying of the locked gate in the next yard, heavy footsteps in the adjoining entry, hideously unexpected, distracting. Then the sound for which they were prepared, the opening of a window above their heads, and a hissing admonition.

"Look out! Bag coming! Trouble on your left!"

A despatch case came hurtling through the air. Nick Conklin, with amazing dexterity, caught it before it touched the pavement and thrust it under her arm.

"Run!" he cried. "Don't look behind. Leave the door open."

She had a horrible vision of a policeman on the dividing wall, his truncheon strap in his mouth, prepared to spring down. Then she remembered Grant's eternal edict—she was part of a whole. She must obey orders. With trembling knees, she ran to the end of the passage without once looking behind, opened the gate, sprang into the car, and started the engine. Her heart was beating furiously. Once she fancied that she heard the spit of a gun. There was a flash which might have been flame against the wall. Then footsteps—never the steps of a policeman those—swift, light and stealthy upon the paved tiles. The door was pushed open, Nick Conklin leaped lightly into the car, and they shot ahead.

"Oh, Nick," she gasped, "I am afraid!"

Their way seemed winged through the traffic-crowded street. Once he leaned forward and spoke.

"Where are we going?" he asked.

"To Flood's, of course."

She made a final dash, turned a corner sharply and pulled up in front of the club. Then things happened quickly. A commissionaire threw open the door, snatched the despatch case from her and vanished inside. The girl and Nick descended. Almost at once, a young man who seemed to come from nowhere jumped into her scat and drove off. From the hall of the club, where they paused for breath, the table where they had dined was clearly visible, and Nick Conklin, as he surrendered his overcoat, stared at it in blank amazement. He touched the girl upon the arm.

"Look there!" he exclaimed.

She laughed and, stooping down, rang a bell let into the wall and covered by a square piece of silk. A man and a girl rose at once from their places at the table and sauntered down the room.

"We haven't had time to let you into all our secrets yet," she confided. "Get into your cloakroom quick. I'll call you when you are to come out."

He obeyed, a little dazed. In less than two minutes, he answered her summons and found her waiting.

"Don't hurry for a moment," she enjoined, handing him a cigarette. "I forgot that this was your first night and you didn't know our tricks. Pretty good, weren't they, those two, considering our artist had only had a few minutes in which to study you."

"Marvellous!" he declared. "Gave me some start!"

"They've done their job for the night now," she continued, looking into her mirror critically and touching up her lips. "They've gone up by the back way to change. Come along and examine Passiter and Eustace Grant. They're perfect."

"What's the great idea?" he enquired.

"An alibi, of course," she explained. "There are forty people in this place now who could swear, and honestly believe it, that neither Passiter nor Eustace Grant, you nor myself, had left the restaurant this evening. Look at Passiter's teeth, and Grant's droop of the mouth and the way he holds his cigarette. There they are, to the life."

"It's a great stunt," Conklin acknowledged.

The waiter held their chairs as they resumed their former places. He poured wine into their glasses, watching them all the time covertly.

"It's simply done, you see," Bradman pointed out, leaning across the table. "Directly you and Miss Dring left your places, your dummies came down by a back way from the dressing rooms into the cloakrooms. Thirty seconds after you had disappeared, they reentered and took your places. Now watch!"

A bell set underneath the table rang softly. The two dummies of Passiter and Grant rose to their feet and strolled away. Every one at the table drew a little sigh of relief.

"A few minutes behind time to-night," Chaplain Lane remarked.

The girl glanced at her watch and nodded.

"There was some shooting," she confided, "and other trouble."

"You got the stuff?" Mat Sarson asked anxiously.

She nodded reassurance. Grant and Passiter strolled up the room together, unruffled, exactly as they had left it an hour before, exactly as their doubles had left it two minutes since. Grant had his arm on Passiter's shoulder and appeared to be in high good humour. At the table, he helped himself quickly to champagne and took up the conversation just where it had been abandoned an hour ago. To all appearance, the little party were continuing with unbroken mirth their light-hearted feast. The girl, however, whose nerves were on edge, was conscious of a sense of strain. Grant, his monocle firmly adjusted, stared fixedly at the label on the bottle of wine which he had been drinking. He turned to the waiter, who was never far away from his elbow.

"George," he directed, "tell Mr. Flood I want a word with him."

The man disappeared. Flood came hurrying up.

"Yes, Major?"

"About this Cliquot '19?"

"There is very little of it left, I'm afraid."

Grant dropped his voice suddenly. "Any one unusual about this evening?"

"Yes."

"Who?"

"A troublesome young man I don't like the look of at all, sitting at a table by himself, near the door. Wants to look over the place afterwards and join the club. Says Jourdain would propose him."

"Damn Jourdain, anyway! Write him off the books. I'll speak to the young man presently."

"Yes, sir."

Flood took his leave. Grant leaned towards their distinguished American guest.

"Any trouble your end?" he asked. "I thought I heard a gun."

"Nothing of that sort," Conklin assured him. "A clumsy, splay-footed policeman came stumbling over the wall at me, and I gave him the double-knuckle twist, and I never heard from him again. Did you find trouble?"

"Yes. That isn't what's bothering me, though. Keep things going here."

Grant, with a careless nod, his cigar still between his ringers, walked towards the table near the door where the young man was seated. He greeted him courteously.

"You want to join our small club, I hear," he said.

"I should like to," the other admitted.

"You have a proposer?"

"Yes. Mr. Mitchell Jourdain."

Grant's manner apparently underwent a sudden change.

"Dear me, dear me!" he regretted. "What did you say your name was, Mr.—?"

"My name is Phillipson—Edward Phillipson. I am in business in the City."

Grant shook his head.

"I am sorry," he confided. "The club is absolutely filled up."

"Jourdain was telling me—" the young man began.

"Forgive me if I interrupt you," Grant begged. "Mr. Jourdain is not persona grata here. His name, in fact, has been removed from the list of members."

"But why?"

"He gave offence in some way, I suppose," was the stiff response. "In any case, as I have told you, the club is full. Will you excuse me now, Mr. Phillipson. I am entertaining friends."

Grant made his thoughtful way back to the table and led the little party into the private bar.

"That fellow who said he wanted to join the club," lie recounted—"under a false name, by-the-by—was Richard Gibbs. He's one of the young men they've pushed along to take Dickins' place. I don't like his coming round here to make enquiries—especially to-night."

"You needn't worry," Conklin chuckled. "He's after me. Told to keep a line on me whilst I'm in the City, I expect. He called at the hotel this morning. Said he was an interviewer. I may not be over-bright, but I can tell an interviewer from a detective."

Grant's face cleared.

"That's better," he admitted, in a tone of relief. "You see," he went on, dropping his voice a little, "we got the stuff to-night, but there was trouble. Passiter had to put a man right out or he'd have got me."

Passiter's face contracted. He snarled in ugly fashion.

"It was your bullet, damn it, which did the trick, Grant, not mine," he rejoined. Grant was unmoved.

"Very likely," he agreed carelessly. "At any rate, one of us has killed a policeman in the unfortunate execution of his duty. Our get-away was excellent, our alibis are cast-iron, if ever they were needed. We have nothing really to worry about, but I have a proposal to make to you all. I hear that in New York the higher branches of the profession have been neglected. Mr. Conklin here will tell you so himself. Let us take a few months' holiday and visit that amiable metropolis. Not all together, of course. I should go myself from Genoa by one of the new Italian boats. Then some one could go from Marseilles, another by the French Line from Havre. There are also the ordinary routes, of course, and a line from Glasgow to Canada. What do you say would happen to us, Mr. Conklin?"

The latter considered the matter.

"You might bring it off," he admitted. "The stuff's there and you've got methods of your own that ain't so bad. Your trouble would be to get the right sort of local information. I don't think it would pay me to join up with you."

There was a moment's silence. A stranger entering the room would have become instantly aware of the fact that there was a sense of strain amongst this little company of men. Even Grant was retaining his imperturbability of speech and manner with an effort. Passiter had mounted the stairs, shivering. Chaplain Lane was very pale and drinking a great deal of wine. Passiter leaned across the table towards their visiting member, and his face and tone were vicious.

"Who cares whether you join up with us or not?" he snapped. "We could find out all we wanted to know amongst the suckers of New York. There's too much smooth talk and swell clothes about our ways lately. Some of you fellows," he wound up, with a scowl at Grant, "are getting above your job. We're crooks, remember, not gentlemen."

Again there was a queer little silence. It was very seldom that an outbreak like this was heard at Flood's. Martha Dring pushed her chair back from the table. Grant pinched a cigar carefully and lit it, as though to emphasize his brief pause.

"You must excuse our friend," he begged, turning to Conklin. "He appears to be a little upset tonight—a touch of nerves, perhaps. Pull yourself together, Passiter."

"Blast your nerves!" Passiter shouted, tearing off his coat and throwing it on the floor. "I'm sick of these sham duds. We did better when we worked from Bermondsey. I'll fight any of you for a hundred quid."

"You forget," Grant reminded him quietly, "that there is a lady present."

"Oh, don't mind me," Martha Dring observed wearily. "I think I'm getting nerves too. I shouldn't mind seeing a good fight."

"You won't see it here," Grant rejoined, and, as he shook his right arm, an ugly little life preserver slipped into the palm of his hand. "We are all on edge to-night and we've got to pull ourselves together. A brawl in the club is just what would give the whole show away. I am master here, remember. Passiter, put on your coat."

The man sulkily obeyed. He was trembling from head to foot. Grant tapped on the table and George, the inevitable shadow of the assembly, crept out from the recesses of the bar.

"Two magnums of the Cliquot, some whisky, soda, and cigars," Grant ordered. "I'll tell you the honest truth. I'm nervy myself."

"We've been at our job too long without a break," Chaplain Lane declared eagerly. "A sea voyage will do us all the good in the world."

"I'll show you where our expenses are, and a bit to go on with, boys," Grant volunteered.

He threw a handful of gems upon the table. They all clustered round. Mat Sarson, who was the expert, let them fall through his fingers.

"They are better than the report," he declared in excitement. "Even when they are cut, boys, there's fifteen thousand pounds' worth here."

The champagne was brought and poured out in tumblers. The dangerous moment was past. Sam Rubens took a pack of cards from his pocket.

"I'll play any one at stud poker for my share," he challenged.

There was a roar of laughter.

"You cheating little devil," Grant scoffed. "As though any one would play with you!"

Rubens—smooth-faced, olive-cheeked, Levantine in appearance—grinned. His beautifully manicured fingers played round the cards.

"Of course I cheat," he agreed. "Every one who plays cards cheats, except the mugs. The thing is, who cheats the cleverest. Any one like to try?"

He looked wistfully around without eliciting any response.

"The trouble of it is we can never get a game of cards here with Rubens around," Grant grumbled.

"You should learn to cheat as well as I do," the young man smirked.

Nick of New York suddenly set down his empty glass.

"Look here, boys," he said. "You're all a little tired of the regular game, you're all spoiling for a gamble. So am I. What about a big one?"

"How big?" some one muttered.

"Something that will give you plenty to talk about for the rest of your days and brace up all the nerves in your body, eh? I don't know what sort of sports you are yet. Have you got the pluck, I wonder?"

"Cut that out, you little swine," Passiter snapped.

"We'll see about the pluck," Grant observed. "Get on with it."

"You're going to clean up here. You'd like to put the bulls off by clearing right out for a spell. Not a bad idea. I'm doing the same myself, from New York. Before you go, let's wind up big. Let's see what you're worth, each of you. Count me in alongside, if you dare."

"Cut that out!" Passiter growled once more. "We've had enough of your bragging."

"I don't brag about anything I can't make good," Nick Conklin declared, with a grandiloquent gesture, "and I'm not afraid to take any one of you on. What I propose is this. Start a competition amongst us men. Keep it open, say a fortnight, or as long as you like. Everyone meets on the last night and the one who's got the most to show for his one job—mind, one job only—scoops the lot. One of us will get something worth having then—not these odd bits of money. You can have side bets, if you like. I shall back myself for a thousand pounds against any one here."

There was a gleam of appreciation in Grant's eyes.

"Do you mean that we are to work alone?" he enquired.

"You can make the conditions yourself," Conklin conceded. "You know the ropes here better than I do."

They all pondered heavily. The light of a great covetousness was in their eyes. Nick of New York was reputed to be a braggart and a millionaire. They wanted his money. Passiter, in his excitement, had recovered his temper. He leaned across the table, his eyes bright, a streak of unusual colour in his cheeks.

"I suppose you realise, all of you," he said, "that what we are proposing to do beats anything else that has ever been done by any company of adventurers in the world?"

Bradman, with a superior smile, cut in.

"There has never been a company of adventurers like us," he said. "We have the police beaten and scared. If this exploit comes off, Scotland Yard will have to go out of business."

"To get back to details," Grant intervened, tapping the table, "there is a certain amount of unnecessary risk attached to a single-handed exploit. To my mind, the artistry of an affair demands a safe, effective, and graceful get-away. For that purpose, a reasonable amount of secondary assistance is needed."

"I agree," Mat Sarson, who was reputed to be the original cat burglar, piped up. "I can work my own stunt better than any one else on earth, but I need covering up afterwards."

"He needs dropping into his little basket, poor dear," Bradman mocked. "I'm for communal help so far as the get-away is concerned, and Costigan's gang behind, if necessary."

"Every one seems unanimous about that," Grant announced, turning to Conklin. "My only regret is that this may place you at some disadvantage, as you are comparatively a stranger with us."

"Not at all," Nick of New York said coolly. "I have watched Miss Dring's methods. They're neat enough for me. I shall invite her to be my partner."

For some reason or other, Grant was displeased. There was a frown upon his face as he turned towards the girl.

"What do you say, Miss Dring?"

His tone was silky, yet portentous. One could almost have detected a threat under the simple question. The girl met his challenge joyously.

"If Mr. Conklin really means it," she assented, smiling at him, "I'll be his get-away with pleasure—and we'll win."

Eustace Grant rose to his feet. No one there had ever seen him so near losing his temper.

"You'll have to aim high," he warned them.

Nick of New York laughed quietly.

"If I have to break into the Tower of London and bring away the Crown Jewels," he declared, "Miss Dring and I will win."

"Your thousand pounds is a bet," was Grant's challenging reply.</story>