<story title="RIVERSIDE SNOWBALLING" date="1929">
EUSTACE GRANT came moodily up to the private bar in Flood's Club and took a stool by Martha Dring's side. She looked at him with a gleam of curiosity in her beautiful eyes.

"Is it my fancy. Chief," she asked, "or are you not quite yourself these last few days?"

He ordered a cocktail. Nick Conklin was on the other side of Martha and Chaplain Lane was studying an evening paper a few feet away. He addressed himself to all three.

"I am suffering," he confided, "from an uncommon psychical disease. It comes on me at odd times in life. Incidentally it won me my D.S.O."

"Tell us about it," Martha Dring begged. "We forget too often that, after all, you're something of a hero underneath your villainy."

Grant tapped a cigarette upon the counter and lit it.

"You remember the third attack—or rather you wouldn't remember it," he began. "Anyhow, it was in 1917 and we were in a bad way. For some reason or other, the German fire had slackened. Word had come down the line that all was clear. A staff officer telephoned we were to give our men a rest. It looked as though the Germans had had enough for a bit. I lay down myself, just as I was, for half an hour, but I couldn't sleep. I felt exactly as I am feeling to-night—exactly as I have been feeling all this week."

"You're becoming interesting," the girl acknowledged.

"I got up softly," he went on. "There wasn't a sound to be heard of any account—nothing but the distant firing down on the southern front. There wasn't a thing which seemed suspicious in any way—and do you know what I did? I had the alarm sounded down two miles of trenches, sent up flares, and called for supports. The Colonel came up to me.

"'What the devil's the matter, Major?' he demanded.

"'That, sir,' I told him, pointing.

"And, sure enough, there they were, working round our flank—half a division of them. We started the second battle of the Rivers that night—got at them before they were half ready and gave them the worst trouncing they'd had for months, and I swear I hadn't heard a single thing when I called the men out."

"It sounds very thrilling," Nick Conklin said quietly, "but what's the connection?"

"There's something wrong here," Grant replied, "has been ever since Angus Flood was taken ill and disappeared. I don't know what it is but I can feel it all around."

"Giving me the creeps," Martha murmured.

"Let's see," Grant reflected. "Hungry John's going out to-night, isn't he? What sort of a job is it? Has he told anyone?"

"He'll tell us himself directly, I expect," Chaplain Lane observed. "He's upstairs now."

"What's Mason making of him?"

"I don't know. Something marine, I think."

"His show to-night then," Grant observed, "and yours on Tuesday, Nick. I'm going to propose that after Tuesday, before we plan our American tour, we take a long, long rest, to prevent it being a longer one. I don't mind telling you if my plans work out, I shall be a thousand miles away a week to-day. I've signed all the checks. Everyone will get what's coming to him, and any of you who have banking accounts abroad had better replenish them. I have arranged with Amos Grimmett to be here on Tuesday night and the great competition can be wound up then. The lucky man can make his own arrangements as to where be has the stuff sent."

"You haven't any real cause for this wave of hysteria, have you?" Martha asked.

He looked at her with a slight curl of his cruel lips, a facial gesture far indeed removed from any suggestion of mirth.

"I have no real reason," he admitted. "That is why, if I knew what fear was, I should be afraid."

"I'm getting really panicky," the girl declared, knocking the cigarette from her holder. "Nick, stand me another cocktail, please. I've just paid my account here and, with Major Grant feeling as he does about the place, I don't think I'll start another one. Do you keep accounts under our names, Charles?"

The pink-and-white barman shook his head slowly.

"You are all numbers to me, madam," he confided. "Number seven is yours, if you want to know."

The door on the right-hand side of the bar was opened and Frisby made his appearance. They stared at him for a moment in surprise. Then Martha clapped and Nick beat the counter with the palm of his hand,

"Marvellous!" he murmured. "Mason's done the trick this time."

Frisby came slowly up to the bar. He was dressed in a shabby sort of blue uniform, which might have belonged to a steward on a third-rate liner. His cap was nautical, with a suggestion of the tropics in its white covering. He carried in his hand a bird cage in which was confined a parrot.

He held out two fingers and Charles supplied him with a drink.

"What's the stunt?" Grant asked.

"There's a small liner from the Straits Settlements dropping in this evening," Hungry John said slowly. "She ain't much to look at, but she carries valuable cargo. Some of them small steamers from the East do."

Grant nodded.

"It's dangerous stuff to handle," he commented.

John Frisby sipped his drink deliberately.

"It's worth it," he confided, "and I've got a pull. The captain of the liner and I did a job together once. He offered to let me on board at Greenwich, but I think my way is as good."

"Shall we see you later?" Chaplain Lane asked curiously. "It's the sort of enterprise I'd like to hear about."

"If I have any luck," the other promised.

He saluted in nautical fashion and left the room with a hornpipe step.

"Knowing what I do of riverside ways and haunts," Chaplain Lane remarked dryly, "I'd sooner dine where I am."


To the edge of civilisation John Frisby ventured upon a taxicab. For another two miles he rode in a bus. Then, for some time, he proceeded on foot through a district of noisy, squalid streets, where shops seemed to have given way, except at odd corners, to torch-lit stalls. There were Chinamen and stranger beings of every race in the tangled and clustering crowd. He encountered bold glances from the women and suspicious ones from the men, alike unmoved. Presently he plunged down a side street and turned up his collar as he met the breath of salt wind which blew in his face. At the end were dimly-seen masts rising above the houses, lights that rocked to and fro as the tide swept in. A little way out in the river a tug was screaming. A small steamer was slowly being dragged into harbourage. Frisby watched it for some time. Then he stole down to the edge of the dock, keeping well in the middle of the road and glancing carefully around. He knew the neighbourhood. . . .

A man dropped from the steamer's side into a small boat and sculled across. He mounted the slippery steps and tied the rope which he had brought to an iron hoop. Frisby stepped carefully forward.

"Is Mr. Enoch on board?" he asked.

The man looked at him indifferently at first, then curiously.

"Yes, Enoch's there," he acknowledged. "What's the sense of standing out in the middle of the dock with your bloody parrot, calling for him? You know where he'll come."

Frisby nodded. There was sense in what the man was saying. He crossed the dirty street with its fragments of rotting vegetables, odd morsels of refuse cast out from the river, to the foul corner of the wharf, and pushed open the door of the public house which occupied that salubrious position. Inside was nothing but a small taproom with one heavy, blowsy-looking man fast asleep on three chairs he had dragged together. There was no one behind the counter, but voices came from an inner room. Cautiously Frisby crossed the sanded floor, drew himself up by the counter rail, and peered over the tattered blind. What he saw was startling enough. There were three men in the apartment and one woman. One man was lying on his side, groaning, and the woman was endeavouring, with a basin full of water, to staunch the blood from a wound in his forehead. Even more disquieting things had apparently been happening, though. There, in a dilapidated chair, tightly bound to it, with a gag in his mouth, the glitter of fear in his black eyes, sat Jacky Costigan, his get-away—Jacky Costigan who should have been in that little alley they both knew of, close at hand, waiting with his forty-horse-power bicycle and carriage—and by the side of Costigan, looking extremely official, was a man in a dark suit, concerning whose calling there could be no manner of doubt—a plain clothes police officer. Hungry John slipped back on to his feet, confident that no one had seen him. He turned to the sleeping man on the chairs.

"Hullo, you there!" he said. "Wake up!"

The man gave no reply save a stertorous groan. Hungry John advanced a few paces and looked at him.

"Shouldn't wonder if he hadn't been drugged," he muttered to himself.

He stole away—his gun was in his hand now—thinking out the possibilities of the situation. The tecs were on to the landing then! There were probably more of them around, waiting for the messenger from the Straits Settlements. Frisby's brain worked quickly. He could release Jacky Costigan without a doubt, by the usual method, and the river was handy enough for the grave of an odd policeman, but why was there only one of them? There must be more in hiding. The sound of his gun would bring them around. He listened for the splash of oars. There was no sound outside. Jacky Costigan could wait, he decided. He played a brave game. With a coin from his pocket he tapped on the zinc edge of the counter. There was a slight exclamation from behind the door, a moment's pause. Then it was opened, and the woman swaggered out, large, ponderous of hip, lavishly decorated with the cosmetics of her Piccadilly sisters, her bold eyes flashing a welcome even as she came behind the counter.

"Well, you're a quiet little mouse, aren't you?" she demanded. "I never heard you come in."

"Too busy behind there perhaps," he answered, with a grin.

"Get on with you!" she rejoined. "There's no one wants to take me in there nowadays."

"Try me," Hungry John proposed gallantly. "But what about a drink first?"

"I don't mind if I do," the woman accepted, with perfect sang froid. "A glass of port's mine, if you can run to it."

"A chap just back from a voyage ought to run to a drink for a lady," Hungry John assured her. "Make it a double glass and give me half a tumbler of the best whisky you've got."

"You're a customer, you are!" she declared, serving him unhurriedly and leaning forward so as to bestow upon him the full blaze of her attractions. "Where do you come from, I should like to know, and what do you carry that damned bird about with you for?"

He contemplated the parrot pensively.

"Thought I might sell it," he confided. "It's grey, and they're a bit difficult to pick up nowadays."

"You just landed?" she asked.

"Off the Lily Jane this evening. We got in before the City of Rangoon. Closish quarters up here."

"A nice bit of mischief you did!" she said. "The City of Rangoon was due in hours ago. I don't know anything about you, darling, but we've never had anything called the Lily Jane here before, that I know of. Here's luck!"

"My love, dear!" Hungry John replied, patting her pudgy fingers. "What, no wedding ring! This may be my lucky day, after all."

"You haven't forgotten how to kid since you've been away," the lady giggled.

"I forget," he sighed, "but it all comes back to me directly I see a real English girl again. Why do you let that fellow sleep there?"

"He's doing no harm. He's going off at midnight, on a barge. Some of his pals are coming for him. I said they could leave him there for a time. He's fairly stupid with booze."

"Some of his pals, eh?" Hungry John reflected thoughtfully. "How many of them?"

"Three or four. I didn't notice."

"Shall I be able to find a bed round here?" he enquired.

She looked at him doubtfully.

"Well, that's asking!" she meditated. "Fact is, things are upset with us to-night. Father's had a bit of a stroke or something and cut his head. I've just been seeing to it. Mind waiting a moment whilst I go and give him another splash?"

"Certainly not," was the polite reply. "Don't keep me too long, though. I'm an impatient sort of cuss."

She smacked the side of his head pleasantly and withdrew, closing the door quickly behind her. Hungry John smelt the whisky with which he had been toying, decided that it was harmless, and drank some. He heard the gurgling of water on the other side of the door. Once again he glanced carelessly at the bargeman and with cautious footsteps made his way outside. The night was dark, but it had ceased to rain. The steamer was practically docked now and a man was standing by a small gangway. The deck was ill-lit, but one or two people were moving about. John Frisby glanced back through the bar window. The woman had not yet returned. He advanced to the end of the quay.

"Is Mr. Enoch on board?" he called out softly.

One of the two men who had been smoking together removed his pipe from his mouth.

"He might be. What do you want with him?"

"I came to meet him—brought him a parrot."

The man spat over the side of the boat.

"Parrots ain't going very well to-night," he confided. "I guess Mr. Enoch thought the morning air would be better for him. I'll let him know, though. Where are you?"

"In the pub there," Hungry John pointed out.

The man slouched off. Frisby stepped back to the taproom and was sipping his whisky when the door of the inner room opened and his enchantress reappeared.

"The old man's all right," she announced, "but I'm afraid there's nothing doing here to-night, mister. Pity, because I rather like you."

"I haven't seen one of your sort since I can remember," Hungry John declared enthusiastically.

She leaned across the counter.

"Tell you the truth, there's been a bit of trouble here this evening," she told him, dropping her voice. "We've had the tecs in."

"Who are they after?" he demanded.

"They think some one's trying to land stuff from one of those steamers," she whispered. "Maybe they're right; maybe they ain't. I only know that they've turned awkward, and though I ain't saying that you aren't a likely sort of chap, you'd do better to sling your hook and come back another day. You'll find me here, all right. Bessie, my name is—Bessie Crumble. I don't get out much because of the old man, but I can do what I like here."

He opened his pocketbook to pay for the drinks. With slim, cautious fingers, from an inner compartment, he drew out, one after the other, five ten-pound notes and palmed them.

"Would you like to earn these?" he enquired, suddenly opening his hand.

She stared at him in amazement and as she realised the denomination of the notes her bosom rose and fell. She breathed heavily.

"You're not a tec?" she asked under her breath.

"No, but although they don't know it, I'm one of the men the tecs are after," he went on. "Set that chap loose in there and you shall have fifty pounds."

"Gawd!" she murmured. "But what about the other chap?"

"I'll see to him," Hungry John promised. "You mustn't be squeamish though. He'll have to go out, I'm afraid."

She shivered.

"I've never seen a man killed," she said.

"Well, you're going to to-night, with any luck," he declared coolly. "You understand what I want you to do? Go back into the kitchen, or whatever you call your room, get a knife and stand by. Then, as soon as we've settled with the policeman, you can go ahead and I'll help you. Your dad won't interfere, I suppose?"

"Not he," she promised. "He ain't fit, anyway. But what about the bobby you're going to do in?"

"I'll see to that myself. He'll be in the mud at the bottom of the Thames to-morrow morning."

In a crumpled heap, the notes were disappearing down the bosom of her dress, smeared, each one of them, with the sweat from her plump fingers.

"Are you going to follow me in?" she demanded. He nodded.

"I'm coming round behind the counter," he said, "just take no notice of me. Keep clear of the cop and get the knife. There's no one outside. We're perfectly all right."

Stooping a little to remain out of sight from the interior of the apartment behind, John Frisby stole along and under the flap of the counter. The woman opened the door and entered in advance. Hungry John was suddenly revealed behind her, his gun in his hand. The man on the floor gazed at him blankly. The policeman sprang to his feet. The light of a desperate hope flamed into the eyes of the man tied in the chair.

"Put them up!" Hungry John cried sharply, knowing very well that he meant to shoot anyway.

The policeman hesitated. There was a stab of flame, a shot, and he went writhing back into his chair. The woman, with a knife in her hand, was already beginning to cut the bonds. Suddenly, Frisby saw the gleam of light fade from Costigan's face. He struggled with his gag, rocking in his chair. One hand, already free, pointed to the doorway behind. He was too late. Without a second's warning, Hungry John found himself in the grasp of a man of many times his strength. His head was thrown back, his hands brought together so quickly that the gun rattled from his helpless fingers on to the floor. The handcuffs were snapped on to his wrist.

"Blast you, you murderer!" an angry voice shouted in his cars. "If I'd known you were going to do that—"

He broke off. Frisby looked slowly around. It was the sleeping man towering over him, all the blowsy sensuality gone from his face, his eyes blazing with anger. Curiously enough, partly from descriptions, partly because he had seen him once in uniform, Hungry John recognised him.

"Big Jim!" he muttered.

"Big Jim it is, you dirty little scoundrel!" the other snarled. "Leave off cutting those ropes, young woman. Throw down your knife."

Her eyes spat fire at him. Instinctively she felt that her fifty pounds was in danger.

"What the hell are you coming in here for, interfering with everybody?" she demanded. "We're honest folks, dad and I."

"Throw down your knife," the Sergeant ordered.

She leaned over and cut one more cord. Costigan was suddenly on his feet, but Big Jim was too quick. His gun was out.

"Jacky Costigan, eh?" he said. "I only wish you had brought the whole of your gang with you. You're under arrest, young fellow, and don't you forget it. If you stir, I'll shoot you dead."

Then the sound for which the man who for hours had been apparently sleeping on three chairs, Costigan, Hungry John, probably the girl, certainly the man upon the floor, had been waiting, was suddenly audible. They all heard it—soft, pattering footsteps crossing that stretch of cobbled waste between the steamer and the public house. The Sergeant stooped quickly, picked up Frisby's gun, and slipped it into his pocket. Then, for a moment, indecision seemed to seize him. These others counted for little. There was nothing in the world he wanted so much as a brief conversation with the person to whom he believed those footsteps belonged. He looked round the room. There was only a skylight in the roof, no door, no means of escape. He stood facing them, gun in hand.

"If one of you men so much as moves," he threatened, "I'll riddle you. Get out behind your bar, young woman. Attend to your customer. See what he wants."

"Not so much of your lip," she swaggered. "I'm not your young woman and don't want to be."

"Get behind the counter," he repeated.

Sullenly she obeyed. The Sergeant studied the other two men. Costigan, he knew, carried no firearms. The pseudo-steward who, in his perfect disguise, was a stranger to him, was not only unarmed but handcuffed. He turned his back on them.

"Don't forget," he warned them, "if you make so much as a sound, I'll plug you both."

He stepped through the doorway and leaned over the counter. The pattering footsteps had ceased. The outer door was quietly opened and closed. A very spick-and-span little Oriental entered the place. He was liver-complexioned, with narrow, dark eyes, and though his clothes were entirely European, and exceedingly good, he wore small gold earrings. He advanced a step or two, his bowler hat raised in his right hand. Underneath his left arm he carried a brown paper parcel of considerable size.

"Good evening, mees," he said, speaking in slow but very correct English. "There was a young man who carried that bird," he went on, pointing to the parrot. "He stood upon the quay and he asked for me. I do not find him here. You can tell perhaps."

Sergeant Big Jim seemed suddenly to have relapsed once more into the hulking lout. He looked meaningly at the small intruder.

"What do you want with him?" he asked.

The Oriental smiled.

"Private beeziness."

"What is your name?" the Sergeant enquired.

The little man looked around. "My name is Enoch—Mr. Enoch," he confided. "I have been here before."

"What have you got in that parcel?" Sergeant Big Jim continued,

"It is very much my own beeziness," the Oriental answered. "If the young man with the parrot will come, that is all that is necessary."

The Sergeant smiled.

"Very well," he conceded, "I will show you the young man with the parrot and you can proceed with your business."

He leaned back and opened the door. The man lying on the strip of carpet was still in a comatose state. Costigan, with the help of some blunt instrument, was working hard at Frisby's handcuffs.

"Stop that, you two!" the Sergeant ordered sharply. "Break away!"

They obeyed sullenly. Sergeant Big Jim had produced his gun and he had the reputation of being very fond of using it.

"Come here, you," he directed, laying his hand on Hungry John's shoulder. "Come and meet a friend."

He led him quickly through the door. The gaslight glimmered upon the handcuffs as he brought him to the edge of the counter.

"Well, here's your friend that you wanted to do business with," he announced, addressing Mr. Enoch. "Perhaps you'll understand now that the game's up."

But the game was not by any means up with Mr. Enoch. His Oriental mind worked swiftly and with perhaps unusual directness. Throughout the whole force, Big Jim's leading characteristic was well known, decried by his superiors, rather admired by his equals. He was a reckless and incautious man. He took risks when there should be none. To bring an affair to an end quickly, he ignored danger. He held his gun in his hand, it was true. Costigan behind, he knew, was unarmed, Hungry John was handcuffed, the little man in front of him was about five feet high, beautifully dressed in shore-going clothes, and a pacifist in expression and appearance, if ever one had existed. The Sergeant stretched out his hand for the parcel.

"I'm going to examine this," he said.

Those were his last words on earth. Hungry John declared afterwards that Nick of New York was beaten by an eighth of a second in the draw of that gun. At any rate, one moment the Oriental's small hands were resting upon the counter, the next a gun, jet-black, with a very stubby muzzle, had flashed into being. There was a spit of flame and the Sergeant collapsed with a crash, his head against the wall, his leg dragging after it a rickety stool. Twice his features twitched; twice he shivered; then he was still and there were several seconds of amazing and awesome silence. The girl began to dampen the counter with a duster which she had been holding in her hand and sob at the same time. The least concerned of anybody was the little Oriental.

"It is a peety," he regretted—"a peety one has to bill, but one must be safe. You tell Mr. Goldmore, young man, this is a very fine consignment. You will find the papers inside. The forty thousand is in the bank, yes?"

"A long time ago," Frisby answered.

"He will read; he will find out. Another eleven thousand pounds is wanted. He will be content, yes? More merchandise. More profit."

Hungry John nodded. Costigan, who had been on his knees by the side of the Sergeant, suddenly sprang up with a bunch of keys in his hand. In a moment Frisby was a free man.

"The Sergeant had a whistle all ready to blow," Costigan whispered. "I bet there are more of them about."

"I had a word of warning," Mr. Enoch confided, "that some unpleasantness might be about tonight. Therefore, I shall not arrive at London. I have a tug here and am going down the river. I shall board the South American boat of a friend of mine by arrangement. We meet next time, is it not so, young man, for the eleventh voyage. You shall know, and Mr. Goldmore shall be told, how much to pay in. The extra eleven thousand pounds' worth came as a surprise, but why should we seek more than one customer?"

"Why, indeed," Frisby replied. "You'll get your money, all right."

Costigan had stolen out of the place. In a moment they heard the sound of his motor bicycle on the cobbles.

"All pretty clear," he whispered, putting his head inside the door.

Hungry John took the passenger seat and covered his packet with a rug. The bicycle shot away. The man in the back parlour had dragged himself to his feet and had reached the counter. He babbled when he saw the Sergeant. The girl was still laughing horribly to herself, and drinking brandy out of a full tumbler.

"Two dead cops," the man gasped. "Who done this, Bessie?"

The girl felt the notes deep down beneath her clothes. She drank again.

"I don't know," she answered. . . .

Mr. Enoch stepped back to the water's edge. A boat was waiting for him. He entered it and hoarded a small, swift-looking tug. The first person he saw there was a young man in shabby blue serge uniform, with a steward's cap and a very anxious expression. In his hand he carried a parrot in a cage. He was a wonderful tribute to Mason's skill. The Oriental stared at him.

"Why you come here?" he asked.

"I've come for the stuff," the other gasped.

"Why have you kept me all this time? What did you land for? I told you I should come on board."

The Oriental walked up to the young man, took him by the shoulders, and looked into his face. Then he turned round, walked to the edge of the tug, and jumped overboard.


It was twelve o'clock when Frisby, very carefully dressed in dinner clothes, changed places with his double and descended to the dining table. Grant had one look at him and poured out a brimming glass of wine. Hungry John's face was not an expressive one, but his complexion seemed to have turned to granite. His lips refused to meet, and there was an indrawn look in his eyes as though he could see nothing but what lay behind him.

"Bad time?" Grant asked.

"Hell!" was the brief reply.

"Got the stuff?"

"Every bit of it—fifty thousand pounds' worth. Any news?"

"Not a word. Any trouble?"

Hungry John moistened his lips and nodded.

"Big Jim's gone," he confided. "The little Easterner did that himself. Another man took Costigan; he got his too. I had to see to that."

Grant moved uneasily in his chair.

"Good thing we're near the end," he muttered. "Any loose threads?"

Frisby shook his head confidently.

"Don't see how there can be," he answered. "I defy any one to recognise me in Mason's make-up. Big Jim knows me well enough. He was within a foot of me and never had an idea. The old man had had a scrap and was pretty well done in. The girl won't peach. She's got fifty quid down her stocking. The only chap who's likely to get into trouble for to-night's work is Syd Adams—discharged ship's steward—if he's fool enough to cart his parrot around."

"What about little Enoch?" Grant asked. "Did he fall for you?"

"Never hesitated. Looked at the parrot, gave one glance at me, and handed over the stuff. He's a cool hand, the way he pulled that gun. I fancy he'll say a word or two, though, when Syd Adams goes on board."

"What's that mark on your wrist?" Martha Dring asked, leaning forward.

Even amongst crooks there is one ineffaceable disgrace. Hungry John wrapped his handkerchief carefully around the wound.

"Knocked my hand against Jacky's handlebar when I got in," he explained.</story>