<story title="THE MAN WITH THE GREY MUFFLER" date="1927">
IT was a villainous night, and Benskin, abandoning his dripping mackintosh and umbrella, let himself into his cosy sitting room, turned on the electric light, and sank into an easy-chair with a little sigh of relief. He rang the bell for the caretaker, who was able, upon occasions, to prepare a modest meal.

"Mrs. Adams," he said, as soon as she had obeyed the summons, "I don't want to stir out again to-night. Can you cook me a chop or a fried sole?"

"I dare say I could manage it, sir," the woman replied, with a certain aloofness in her manner. "There's a young person been here to see you. She wanted to wait, but I sent her away."

"Who was she?" Benskin enquired. "And why send her away on a night like this?"

Mrs. Adams' lips were tightly pursed; her features denoted disapproval.

"It is far from me to be hard on one of my own sex, sir," she said, "but there was no mistaking the character of the young woman, and I don't hold with that way of living. We're all respectable folk here and while I'm caretaker none of that truck shall come hanging about."

Benskin wheeled around in his chair.

"Did the young person leave any message?"

"She did not. There's a chop in the house, sir, and a couple of haddock. I'll cook whatever you say."

Benskin made his choice and Mrs. Adams took her departure. A few minutes afterwards, however, came a ring at the bell, and, after a slight delay, she made her reluctant reappearance.

"It's the young person, sir," she announced. "If you'll take my advice, you'll speak to her on the doorstep."

"You will show the young person in, Mrs. Adams," Benskin directed.

The woman hesitated, but obeyed. Under his meek exterior, her tenant could at times be convincing. A moment later, she threw open the door, and, having ushered in the unwelcome visitor, closed it again without a word.

"You wished to see me?" Benskin enquired, rising to his feet.

The newcomer looked at him for a moment in silence. She was either out of breath or overcome with some emotion. As to her place in the world, without a doubt Mrs. Adams's suspicions were justified. Such measure of good looks as she had ever possessed seemed to have been washed away with the rain. A small and insufficient umbrella had left her partially wet through. There were streaks of rouge upon her cheeks, two roses drooped sadly from the side of her small hat, her shoes of some light fancy colour, sodden with rain, were a pathetic sight.

"You wished to see me?" Benskin repeated.

"You're a detective, aren't you?" she rejoined. "The one who took the Dunster Street murderer?"

Benskin frowned for a moment. It was a recollection which always disturbed him.

"Yes, I am a detective," he acknowledged.

"Queer sort of a do," she went on, looking around the room. "You might almost be a gentleman, living in Cork Street this."

"I might almost," Benskin admitted, "but what of it?"

"I've got a lodger," she confided. "He is nothing to do with me. I don't know anything about him—never spoke a dozen to him in my life."

"Well, what about him?"

"He's dead—been done in within the last hour or so—murdered."

Benskin stared at her for a moment incredulously. Suddenly he realised that she was in earnest.

"Go on," he enjoined gravely. "Tell me what you want to, but be careful."

"Oh, I'm not afraid," the woman declared. "I've got nothing against him, nor him against me. I just looked in to tell him I was going out, to see if he wanted a bit of wood for his fire—we're out of coal—and there he was—and my, such a state as his room was in! I had one look—just long enough to be sure that he was dead—locked up the door and came for you."

"Why didn't you fetch the nearest policeman?"

"Well, for one thing, I hate the man on my beat and I doubt whether he'd have come if I asked him—he'd have thought I was kidding; then I knew you lived here—I see you often going in and out—and I knew who you were—saw you every day at the Monk Murder Trial. I don't often miss one of them. I said myself that you wouldn't want a clumsy fellow messing about room and spoiling things. You can be the first person now to cross the threshold after the man who done him in—gives you a better chance, don't it?"

"I suppose it does," Benskin admitted. "I'll come with you at once."

With a sigh, he put on his still-dripping mackintosh and hat, postponed his meal, and drove to a small house in a street off Oxford Street. The woman led him up the stairs.

"Those are my two rooms," she pointed out when they reached the first landing. "That's his. Here's the key."

"Is there any electric light?"

"You'll find the switch just on the left-hand side."

Benskin turned the key, pushed open the door and peered into what seemed to be a wall of darkness. Before he could reach out for the switch, he caught sight of the faint outline of a man's crouching figure, partially warded off a blow, which if it had landed on his jaw would probably have broken it, and found himself crashing through the banisters. He swayed upon his feet for a moment, and would have fallen to the little hall below but for the woman who was with him. Shrieking all the time, she pulled him out of danger. When he recovered consciousness, he was seated upon the top stair, looking down at a little pool of blood. There were the broken banisters to remind him of his escape, the open door of the room behind, and the woman trying to staunch the blood from a wound on the side of his face with a none-too-clean towel. Below, the rain was beating in through the open front door. The cold wind which carried it across the threshold probably helped him back to consciousness.

"My God," he muttered, "was that the murdered man?"

"Nothing like him," the other answered. "There, you've stopped bleeding now. Feeling queer still? I haven't a drop of anything in the house to give you."

"I shall be all right directly," Benskin assured her. "Did you see who it was? Did you know him?"

"Not I!"

"He wasn't your lodger?"

"Of course he wasn't. I tell you my lodger's lying in there, dead, with his head bashed in. That's the man who killed him, who's just rushed out. He must have been hiding in the room all the time and then I locked him in without knowing it."

"Would you recognise him?" Benskin asked anxiously.

"Not on your life. He'd a great grey muffler tied all over the bottom part of his face—nothing but his eyes showing—nasty, murdering eyes they were too!"

Benskin staggered to his feet.

"We'd better go and see if you've been romancing," he suggested.

He made his way unsteadily into the room and turned on the light. There, sure enough, upon the floor lay the dead man.

He was, after all, no heroic figure—a puny, undersized little fellow, dressed in a shabby, blue serge suit, who looked as though he might have been killed instantaneously by the one blow which had shattered his skull. Yet there were evidences of a struggle—evidences, too, of a search—although the apartment was meagre enough. Every drawer was opened and its contents had been tumbled out on to the floor. The mattress of the bed had been pulled out and ripped up. The man's pockets showed signs of having been rifled. Benskin, warned by his giddiness, fumbled for his note-case and produced some money.

"Get a bottle of brandy," he begged the woman—"the best you can."

She clutched eagerly at the note.

"Couldn't I just do with a drop myself!" she exclaimed with fervour. "I won't be a minute."

Benskin nodded feebly. He sat with his head resting upon his hand, taking further note of the confusion of the room. The dead man's face was of a not unfamiliar type—a puckered-up, monkey-looking face, scarcely English, yet without marked foreign characteristics. He was a man of perhaps forty years of age, who might have been a betting tout or a waiter in some small restaurant. Poverty-stricken, without a doubt, Benskin decided, as he noticed the hole in his sock, the frayed shirt, the general bareness of the apartment. Yet he must have possessed something of interest, for the search in its way had been methodical....

Suddenly Benskin's vague speculations came to an end. The detective's instinct asserted itself. The landlady had scarcely been gone two minutes, but without a doubt there was the sound of footsteps mounting the stairs—light, hesitating footsteps, as of some visitor who comes in fear. He held his head for a moment, then rose to his feet. He was feeling a little sick. The room had an odd trick of swaying, but he held on to the wall and listened. The footsteps were close at hand now, more and more distinct, yet with a break every now and then as though the newcomer were pausing to listen. He pushed open the door, and felt for the switch of the hall light which the landlady had turned out. He failed at first, however, to find it.

"Who's there?" he demanded.

The footsteps stopped. The little stairway was so near that he could hear the quick breathing of some one only a yard away.

"Who's there?" he repeated more loudly. "What do you want?"

For a moment there was silence, no attempt at any sort of reply. Then the mysterious intruder seemed to turn away in rapid flight. He heard the flying footsteps—the footsteps now of one in breathless haste—and the swirl of a skirt. Then, by the half-light from the room he had just left, the door of which he opened more completely, he caught a glimpse of the dim, vague shape of a woman in dark clothes. A rush of cold air came up the stairs—then the slamming of a door. At that moment he found the switch—too late. The hall was empty. There was no sign of the furtive visitor....

The landlady returned in triumph. She bustled into her own room and came out with the bottle of brandy which she had purchased still under her arm, two glasses and a syphon of soda.

"My, I can do with this!" she exclaimed, as she helped herself and gulped down the contents of a tumbler.

Benskin followed suit, less greedily, but with as much need.

"Tell me," he asked, "did you meet a woman in the street just outside?"

"Not a soul," she assured him. "There ain't many about either. It's a cruel night!"

"Some one has been in during your absence. She climbed the stairs on tiptoe—a woman it was. She would have come in here but I called out."

The landlady shook her head.

"You're wandering a little," she warned him, not unsympathetically. "That was a fair knockout blow you got."

"I'm not so bad as that," he protested. "Had this poor fellow any lady friend who used to visit him?"

"There's been a woman here once or twice," the landlady replied. "She's never stayed more than a few minutes, though. I caught a glimpse of her once—a quiet-looking body she was, all in black."

"How long has he been with you?" Benskin enquired.

"Five weeks—paid weekly in advance," she confided, helping herself to more brandy. "Name of George Mulligar—been a groom, he said, and looking for a job. A squeamy-looking piece of goods, but I never had anything against him."

"Some one else had," Benskin observed, glancing toward the dead man's head, which he had covered over with a towel.

"Shouldn't have thought he'd have been worth doing in," the woman ruminated, taking another long gulp of brandy. "Never seemed to have the price of a Scotch on him."

"What about that, then?" Benskin asked, pointing towards the mantle-piece.

The woman's eyes grew bigger and bigger. She rose unsteadily to her feet.

"My God," she exclaimed. "Flimsies! Banknotes! Good 'uns, too!"

Benskin counted them and buttoned them up in his pocket.

"One hundred pounds," he said. "That's a pretty good sum for him to have had, living here the way you describe. A pretty good sum, too, for the man who murdered him to have left behind."

"My God!" the woman repeated. "Him with a hundred pounds! Why, he's owing me a couple of quid now for meals, and a bit besides, for wood and coal."

"You'll probably get your money then," Benskin observed drily. "I'm going to take this for the present, but everything owing will be paid."

He turned towards the door. The woman shivered.

"You're not going to leave me up here alone!" she gasped.

"I am not," he answered. "I am going to fetch a policeman who will remain on duty all night. Early in the morning, the body will be moved to the mortuary."

She cast a covetous glance towards the bottle of brandy. Benskin handed it to her.

"You'd better get into your room now," he advised. "I shall lock up here, fetch a doctor, and leave a policeman in charge. There will be someone in the room all night."

The woman hugged the bottle of brandy.

"Take him away as quickly as you can," she begged.

"He'll be gone before you get up in the morning," Benskin promised.


BENSKIN sat in consultation with his Chief one morning a week later. Upon the table between them was stretched a grey muffler, an affair of cheap, imitation silk, and a small triangle of pearl-grey notepaper, on the extremity of which was half a letter, stamped in black, cut clean through. The Chief, after a leisurely examination of these objects through his eyeglass, leaned back in his chair.

"Considering that you had the run of the place for as long as you liked, Benskin," he grumbled, "and were first on the spot, you don't seem to have been able to pick up much in the way of clues,"

Benskin appeared in no way depressed by his Chief's criticism.

"Well, I'm not so sure, sir," he observed. "This is without a doubt the scarf the man wrapped around his face when he dashed out of the room and knocked me silly, and which he threw down the area when he turned the corner. I felt convinced he couldn't go very far along the street like that, and would probably throw it away, so I had a careful search made, and it was found without difficulty. You will see the ticket is still on it, so I concluded that it was only bought that night. We tried the shops in the neighbourhood and found the right one after a few enquiries. Here we were blocked a little, I must admit, but one of the shop-walkers was able to help us. He remembered a young woman neatly-dressed in dark clothes, with a bad cough, who called that evening and bought that, or a similar scarf."

"Did that lead you anywhere?" Major Houlden asked.

"Later on it did," the other admitted. "Perhaps I am putting the cart before the horse. I'll go straight to the money."

"I noticed you kept pretty quiet about that at the inquest," the Sub-Commissioner commented.

Benskin nodded.

"I meant to, sir," he answered. "Tracing the notes was a piece of routine, but, as a matter of fact, it took a couple of days. They were withdrawn from the private banking account of Lady Lettice Moran on the morning of the murder."

"What, the girl who is going to marry the Duke of Rochester?"

"The wedding is announced for to-morrow. The fragment of grey notepaper you have there, I found just where the mattress had been cut, obviously in search of the letter or something of the sort. The knife had gone through the corner and left this triangle. We discovered without any difficulty that this was the colour of the notepaper commonly used by Lady Lettice. A few more enquiries and we discovered also that her maid answered exactly to the description of the woman who bought the grey muffler, and that she is suffering from a cough."

"Blackmail!" the Chief murmured.

"Precisely," Benskin agreed. "There's blackmail concerned in the affair somehow, but I haven't been able to exactly reconstruct the situation as yet, and I am afraid of making a wrong move. The fellow I want is the fellow who knocked me out. I want him very badly. I still have an exceedingly unpleasant pain in my jaw."

"What about Lady Lettice?"

"I'm going to see her this afternoon. The fact of it is, I've been afraid to approach her officially. The maid may be honest, or she may be in with the fellow whom we want, and if I called at the house from Scotland Yard, and she got wind of it, it would be all up with our catching our man, if she's in the plot. I've left it till this afternoon, on purpose. There's a small reception, with a show of the presents, and I have managed to persuade an old schoolfellow to take me in as an ordinary guest."

"That's a good move," the Chief approved. "Before you go, just let me hear how far you are able to get with your reconstruction. You've built the case up a little, I suppose?"

"Just as far as this, sir. I take it that Lady Lettice has, at some time in her life, written a letter of a compromising nature, that the murdered man had got hold of it and was blackmailing her, and that on the eve of her marriage she sent him a hundred pounds by the maid to be given in exchange for the letter. The maid parted with the hundred pounds, but for some reason or other failed to receive the letter at the time. The man may have told her that he hadn't got it there and that she was to come back for it in an hour or so. The blackmailer either had a partner, or there was some one else after the letter. That person, whoever he may have been, was hiding in the room when the landlady locked the door, rushed out as soon as I opened it, knocked me silly, and bolted. The maid had probably left the grey silk muffler on her first visit and he snatched it up to conceal his face as he ran down the stairs. The footsteps I heard when I was waiting were probably the footsteps of the lady's maid coming back for the letter. Of course, this leaves a lot to be explained, but it's as near as I can get until I have a talk with Lady Lettice. They tell me that she is a sensible girl, and if so, I shall hope to get the truth from her."

The telephone bell rang, and the Sub-Commissioner nodded dismissal.

"Good luck to you," he said. "Come and see me when you get back."


BENSKIN, only moderately at ease in the town clothes to which he had become unaccustomed, and amidst a crowd of people who were mostly strangers to him, was nevertheless obliged to exercise his patience, for Lady Lettice, who was surrounded by friends, was almost inaccessible.

"Can't do anything about introducing you yet, old chap," his companion pointed out. "What's the game really? Are you looking after the presents?"

"Don't be an ass," Benskin rejoined. "We generally employ women for that part of the show. What I want, as soon as some of these people have cleared out, is a few minutes' private conversation with Lady Lettice. Do you know her well enough to arrange that for me?"

"Why, you idiot, she's my cousin," the young man confided. "I can manage that all right and pretty soon, I should think, people are thinning out a bit. Nothing wrong, I hope?"

"Nothing in the least wrong," Benskin assured him. "I just want a little information that she can give me, that's all, and I'd much rather get it informally like this."

"I'll go and find her," Mclntyre proposed. "You hang about here. I won't be longer than I can help."

He reappeared in about ten minutes with Lady Lettice by his side. She was tall and dark, with deep-set blue eyes—a beauty of several seasons' standing. She came smiling up to Benskin and accepted Mclntyre's introduction gracefully.

"What about some tea, Lettice?" the latter suggested.

"Not likely!" she scoffed. "I know of something better than that. Come along, both of you!"

She led them to a smaller room, where a butler and two footmen were dispensing refreshments.

"Three champagne cocktails, Groves," she ordered. "Three of the best, please, in that corner."

She led them to a secluded place and by and by the few loiterers dispersed. Eric Mclntyre rose to his feet.

"Lettice," he explained, "my friend here, Mr. Benskin, has something to say to you. Will you give him just a minute, please? You can trust him. He's all right."

"Why, with pleasure," she assented readily. "What can I do for you, Mr. Benskin? You don't write things for the papers, do you, or anything of that sort?"

Eric Mclntyre, with a farewell wave of the hand, had drifted away. Benskin spoke as lightly as he could.

"No, I'm not a journalist, Lady Lettice, although I do belong to almost as disagreeable a profession," he confided. "You won't mind, will you, if I confess that I am connected with Scotland Yard?"

She suddenly stiffened. There was a drawn look about her mouth, a momentary flash of horror in her eyes. Then, almost as quickly, she recovered herself. It was as though she had remembered something reassuring.

"Will you let me talk to you for just three minutes?" he begged. "I am here entirely to help you if I can."

"You think that I need help?" she asked, with some return of her former manner.

"I think that you do," he acknowledged gravely. "Lady Lettice, tell me if I am making a mistake. You are being blackmailed, are you not, on account of a letter which fell into the hands of some one living in Mendel Street?"

She nodded.

"That is very nearly the truth," she confessed.

"You entrusted your maid recently with a large sum—a hundred pounds—to end the matter and procure the return of your letter. The maid parted with the hundred pounds, but in some way she was tricked. The man refused to keep his side of the bargain."

"That is quite true," the girl admitted with some surprise. "I do not blame Harriett. He was so horrible, such a vile person! What happened was that when she got there, to his rooms, he said that he must have another thirty pounds. She came back to me, and I managed to raise it somehow, but when she returned to Mendel Street she thought she heard some one else in the room, and she was frightened."

"I understand," Benskin murmured sympathetically.

"The letter was one which has been terribly on my conscience ever since I wrote it," Lady Lettice went on, twirling a very beautiful ring round and round upon her finger. "I was so weary, so tired of life a month or so ago, and there was a man who has always been more or less in love with me, only he is married. He was going abroad to Africa for ever. He wanted me to go with him, and one night, just before he sailed, I suddenly thought how wonderful it would be to break off from this life altogether. You don't know much of my family, I suppose, Mr. Benskin, but we are very poor—we really have no home, we are half dependent upon our friends and relations. I was utterly tired of it all. I was never in love with him, but we have many tastes in common, and it seemed to me that any change was worth while, so I wrote and said that I would come. Harriett took the letter, and this little beast, who used to be a groom of ours in Ireland, snatched it from her just as she was ringing the bell of his house. That very night, Hugh Rochester, the man whom I am going to marry, who has always been my dear friend, but who never gave me the slightest idea that he cared, proposed. I couldn't reply at first. I asked him to wait for a week. I would have given anything to get the letter back, but there was no trace of it. The man to whom it was written, sailed without a word from me, and every time I saw Hugh I felt happier with him. You may not believe me, Mr. Benskin, but this is the truth: I care for him now more than any one in the world.... Just as I was beginning to realise my happiness, this man—Mulligar, his name is—began to demand money from me. Every penny I ought to have spent upon my trousseau he had, and the brute always cheated. I don't know why I tell you all this, Mr. Benskin," she concluded, with a little grimace. "I suppose it's those nice blue eyes of yours and that sympathetic manner."

"My dear Lady Lettice," he said earnestly, "if only you people would believe it, to submit to blackmail for a single moment is the most foolish thing in the world. We preach that doctrine continually, but very seldom with any success."

She nodded.

"Of course I was an idiot," she admitted, "and yet, after all, it has all come right. I did what I ought to have done at first. I told Hugh all about it—everything."

"When?" Benskin asked swiftly.

"When Harriett came back after parting with the hundred pounds and not receiving the letter," she confided. "I sent her off to get thirty pounds from a friend, and then, all of a sudden, the ignominy of it swept over me. I couldn't bear it. She had scarcely left the house, on her way down to Richmond, when Hugh arrived, and I told him everything. He was the dearest person in the world. What do you think he did?"

"I can't imagine."

"He never said a word to me," she went on, a little tremble in her voice, and her eyes dimmed. "He just left a little earlier than usual, after having been sweeter than he had ever been in his life, and do you know what he did? He went straight—"

"Stop!" Benskin cried.

She looked at him in amazement, her lips still parted. "What do you mean?" she demanded.

The kindliness had suddenly gone from his face. There was something like horror in his eyes. He gripped her wrist. He held out his hand as though to cover her lips.

"Don't tell me what you were going to," he insisted.

She drew a little away.

"But, my dear man," she laughed, "you can't imagine what I am going to tell you, and tell it to you I shall. He went straight to that little beast's lodgings and he got my letter.... Why do you look like that? What's the matter?"

He sat for a moment or two in perfect silence. His despairing eyes were looking out of the window. There was a sick feeling in his heart. At that moment he hated himself and his profession. The girl, with some intuitive consciousness of evil, clung to his arm.

"Mr. Benskin," she pleaded, "please tell me what is wrong."

"You don't read the papers?" he asked. "You don't know anything that has happened during the last week?"

"Read the papers?" she repeated. "Never—especially these days. What is it? What do you mean? I have my letter back. Hugh has seen it. We read it together. Hugh himself put it on the fire."

He rose to his feet.

"Forget that you ever wrote it," he begged. "Forget that you ever had it back—for his sake."

"I will forget," she promised. "I mean to forget. It is the one thing I desire. But why for Hugh's sake?"

"Some day he may tell you—but not yet. Don't ask him anything about it yet," Benskin muttered, as he took his somewhat confused leave.


THE Sub-Commissioner was waiting for Benskin when he returned and eyed the latter's unaccustomed raiment with a smile of amusement.

"You're one of the most useful fellows we've got," he said, pointing to a chair. "Born to the manner and that sort of thing, you know! Not many of them could carry it off like that."

Benskin sat down a little wearily.

"I'm afraid you'll have to do without me, sir, in the future," he announced. His Chief stared at him.

"I am here to offer my resignation, sir. I haven't any luck, and the service doesn't suit me."

Houlden was a man of quick sympathies and he recognised the other's distress.

"Steady on," he enjoined kindly. "What's it all about?"

"What is your private opinion, sir," Benskin demanded, "of a foul, blackmailing little beast who steals a letter from a maid, hides in a garret with a prostitute for a landlady, sneaks money week by week from an innocent girl without any too much to spare, each time promising to give up the letter he holds, and each time cheating? Keeps her in a state of torture while he wrings money out of her to waste in some foul carouse."

"Filthy vermin," the Chief declared curtly. "You know what I think of a blackmailer."

"What should you think of the man who puts his heel upon the neck of one of them?"

"Shake hands with him," was the prompt response.

"Yes, and do you know what the law would do to him?" Benskin asked, with an hysterical tremor in his tone. "The law would hang him or send him to penal servitude for life. That's our b—-y justice! If you kill, you kill, and you swing!"

The Sub-Commissioner leaned forward. The two men looked into each other's eyes across the table.

"I begin to understand," he said slowly. "The law is a brutal thing sometimes. You've found out—"

"I've found out nothing," Benskin shouted, for a moment losing his self-control. "I've no idea who let the life out of that skunk. I only know that it was done, as the evidence at the inquest proved, by one blow, probably in a moment of disgust, and that the man was rotten inside, ready to die from shock at any moment. I don't know who killed him, sir—I never shall know—and I resign!"

"I'm damned if you will," his Chief replied, holding out his hand across the table. "We'll be human together. Call your other men off. We drop the case."

So the Mendel Street murderer was never brought to justice and the man with the grey muffler remained unknown.</story>