<story title="HORNETS STING" date="1929">
THERE was nothing apologetic or particularly ingratiating about the appearance or manner of Eustace Grant as he descended the brick steps into the cellar of the Golden Sun at Rotherhithe and faced the little group of young men seated on each side of the long table. The buzz of welcome, which a few years before had greeted him, never materialised. He entered and took his place in the midst of stubborn silence. With a touch of bravado he threw open his black overcoat to display his dinner clothes as he swung himself into his accustomed seat at the head of the table.

"What's the matter with you Hornets?" he demanded. "Jack Costigan says you're dissatisfied. I ask him why? He says, 'Ask them yourself.' Well, that's what I'm here to do."

They were really, seen en famille, a villainous lot of ruffians. There was a huge fire burning at the further end of the room and nearly every one had removed his coat. Their shirts and pullovers were flashy, but scarcely one was clean. A coiffeur would have gasped at the task before him, had he been confronted with their tousled heads of hair. There was a common quality in all their faces—savagery. They looked like killers, every one of them. There were twenty-eight men around the table and one knew quite well that there were twenty-eight concealed knives. Jack Costigan leaned forward in his chair.

"Here's the boss, lads," he announced. "You thought he wouldn't dare to come to you, but I knew him better. Spit it out like you do to me. Tell him your trouble."

"You've got too swell up at the West End," one voice growled. "Why don't we get more work?"

"That's Jack Costigan's job more than mine," Grant answered quickly. "We use you when we can and you get your share then of everything we touch."

"Your jobs are all too bloody high class now," another voice squeaked out.

"My lads," Eustace Grant enjoined, "listen. Crime and robbery ten years ago was the work and pastime of the scavengers, such as you. To-day it has become a hard-learned profession. The drinks arc free, Jack. Tread on the bell."

A surprisingly smart-looking barman from upstairs brought whisky and served everybody. Those who had been drinking beer poured the whisky boldly into the pewter mugs. To Grant he presented a tall tumbler of thin glass, with ice in the bottom, poured in some whisky from a squat bottle, and added Schweppes soda water.

"Cigars and tobacco," Grant further ordered, and cigars and tobacco were served. Then their old leader addressed his Hornets.

"Now, lads," he began, "you couldn't have a better example of what I mean than the barman who has just served you. Five years ago, Jimmy Craske was good enough for us—Jimmy, stinking like hell, his trousers tied up with a dirty handkerchief, no collar, and a filthy shirt. And as for the muck he served us, I wonder we lived after drinking it. To-day you have a clean, smart fellow to wait upon you and good liquor. Why is that? Simply because times have changed, and you've damned well got to change with them if you mean to do any good. You earn big money still. Don't spend it down here with riverside trollops and gamble it away with Chinks. Prowl up into the West End, buy decent clothes, pick up the tricks like Jack here has. Leave the fag-end of you, who have no ambition, to deal with drunken sailors and shop burglaries, and knifing a man you think has welched you for a bob or two. Stick your noses up and buy patent shoes. Jack's done it and he's free of my West End headquarters whenever he likes to come. You can do it when you want to, but I'm damned if you come up to my haunts regularly, or if I pass you any high-class jobs till you can come up looking like human beings."

An older man from the end of the table knocked out his pipe and voiced the general murmur of tepid approval.

"That's not such bad talking," he declared. "The boss had scored against us, all right. The only thing is it will take some time to alter our ways, and meantime we want work."


"How's this to start with then?" Grant demanded. "I want the whole lot of you on Saturday night, for serious business. It will be Covent Garden way, all particulars from Jacky. I'm the man who's doing the job. It will be a hundred quid if things go wrong and a thousand if you get me out safe. If you don't, I'm for the next world, so sharpen your knives before you come, lads. That's all I've got to say to you for the present."

There was a definite murmur of applause now, in the midst of which Grant took his leave, beckoning Costigan to follow him. They stood outside in the squalid street, a short distance away from the main thoroughfare, whilst Grant's car was being fetched from a place of security.

"At four o'clock to-morrow afternoon," Grant promised, "I'll give you a time-table. Jack. It will be worked out to the second, I'll pledge my word to that. See that they've had a drop to drink, but not too much, and let them remember they must clear my way and throw a ring around my car till I am well forward, or they'll have to look out for themselves in the future. It's a big do, Jack," he added, resting his hand for a moment upon the youth's shoulder, "and if ever I felt nervous in my life I do now."

"You'll pull it off all right, Major," the young man predicted confidently. "We'll see they don't get at you, anyway. Our boys are spoiling for a fight, every one of them, and there isn't a slinker in the lot."

They stood in silence, watching the gently falling rain. From end to end, Grant's eyes swept the irregular line of shabby houses, the backs of the warehouses with their side entries, famous bolt holes in the old days, and his thoughts travelled backwards. He too, notwithstanding a different education, had felt in his younger days much the same spirit as those ruffians below—the tedium of inaction, the itch always to fight. Many a time he had prowled out, generally alone, for it was before the days of gangs, sometimes with a set plan, sometimes merely seeking prey, but always with the thrill of excitement in his blood, so hard now to recapture. And then—the war! He found himself wondering in those few minutes of waiting whence had come the lure of the distant thunder from across the seas which had made him one of the first to enlist, had sent him into battle with the courage of the born fighter. Corporal, sergeant, a commission, a D.S.O., a certain V.C. if all his superior officers had not been killed, distinctions everywhere as a brilliant and fearless man of battle. He had left the war with a halo around his head and the praise of the most distinguished generals of the day ringing in his ears, and on his first night in London he was back again in the old cellar! It was there and then he had planned out the transference of his energies to the West End with such brilliant success. He had the knack of finding the right men with whom to surround himself. Wartime service had taught him that. He was a rich man now. There was no real need for him ever to work again, no need to take another risk. Yet the thrill of his coming enterprise was already in his blood. He knew that nothing would stop him, although, from the first moment he had conceived it, he had been conscious of an unaccustomed sense of apprehension lurking always in the background. Fear he had never known. Apprehension such as this never before to the same extent. Yet he had somehow the curious feeling that there was a certain fitness in this last visit to the nursery of his career—that great events were at hand.

His car rolled up and he drove away with a farewell word to Costigan. He went straight to the club and felt a cold little shiver of anger as he realised that Nick and Martha were dining together at the privileged table. He greeted them, however, with his usual cynical good humour.

"Doing anything to-morrow evening, either of you?" he asked, as he drew out his pocketbook.

"Not unless we're wanted," Martha replied. "You're going out, aren't you?"

He nodded.

"You won't be wanted," he promised. "I've a box at the opera. Care to use it? It's a modern Russian show—the only thing of their new music that's come west."

"I should love to go," Martha assented enthusiastically. "What about you, Mr. Nick?"

"I'm free," the latter admitted. "I don't know much about music, but I daresay Miss Martha will explain it to me."

Grant handed them the tickets. His eyes were fixed upon the girl.

"I should like you to be there," he said calmly.


Martha knew what Grant had meant directly she read the brief abstract of the third act printed on the right-hand side of the programme. She passed it in silence to Nick, who read it with some difficulty in the dimly-lit house, with the disturbing sobbing of the violins in his ears.


"Catherine decides after all that she will not yield to her lover's passionate entreaties to give up her jewels for the benefit of the Bolshevist cause, and informs him that it is her intention to wear them at the Opera House on the following night. She tells him that without her jewels she fears to lose her inspiration, and she reminds him that the few times she has sung without them the critics have found fault with her. The great rubies which hung around her neck had become like the blood of her body, the diamonds upon her bosom, the white passion of her genius. She loves him, but she fears to do as he wishes. If he insists, they must part. Kronzy receives the message just in time to rush to Moscow by car in his workman's clothes. He makes his way on to the stage, where he is well-known, as Catherine is singing her last and favourite song, tears the jewels from her neck, and strangles her."


There was a glint of unwilling admiration in Nick's eyes as he read.

"Major Grant has a sense of the dramatic, at any rate," he conceded.

"You think that he means to go for Midara's jewels?" she whispered breathlessly.

He nodded.

"Why not? Like a fool, she tells every interviewer who comes to see her that she wears her real ones on the stage and that she possesses no imitation jewellery. You know, underneath all his cynicism, how conceited he is. He wants to outshine us all and, upon my word, if he brings this off, I should think he will have done it."

The girl shivered.

"Midara's such a great artist," she murmured. "I never felt like it before, Nick, but I feel that I ought to do something. I can't sit here and watch."

"There is nothing that you can do," he said quietly. "Whatever Grant's plans are it would be too late to interfere with them now."

The strange music burst convulsively into the final bars of the overture to the Third Act. The girl and the man in the stage box listened to it with a sense of growing dread. The house was darkened. The curtain went up. Almost at once, Midara was singing to an imaginary audience, singing with all the glory and thrill of a real prima donna, her voice swelling as the light grew till she stood in a grey, mystical twilight, pouring out her stream of tumultuous notes. There was not a sound to be heard in the great house. Everyone was breathless, entranced. They waited for the tragedy to come, very close at hand, as indeed it was. From the left wings stole through the obscurity the tall form of her lover, still in his peasant's clothes, crouching a little, his face screened from the footlights. She was suddenly aware of his presence. She stopped short in her song. The passionate question throbbed from his lips. She held out her arms. He moved nearer. There was silence. Had he missed his cue? The first violin drew his bow across the strings of his instrument gently, suggestively, a strange thread of melody in the silence—but without response. His few wild bars of reproach remained unsung. She waited for them, arms still outstretched. Suddenly the embrace which she had been inviting was hers with a vengeance. He seized her in his arms. Her cry of agony rang out just as every light in the house was extinguished and stage and auditorium alike were plunged in darkness. The figures upon the stage were unseen, but one had the strange and awful idea that a real struggle was going on there. A second terrified scream from Midara electrified the house. Then came the sound of shouting in the wings, a blaze of illumination, as the lights in the house flashed once more into being. The audience, standing up, and many of them themselves shrieking, now caught a hasty glimpse of the descending curtain and of Midara stretched upon the stage in no attitude of studied grace but a huddled heap of bruised and unconscious humanity. The stage manager, his left arm hanging helpless, was on his knees, bending over her. As the curtain was in the act of falling, he turned to the audience, and not one of those who heard his cry will ever forget its hysterical, nerve-shattering excitement. "She lives! Midara lives!"

A moment's loss of nerve, a single faltering during the next five minutes, and Eustace Grant's course was surely run, for the fortune which had led him through so many dangerous enterprises for once turned her back upon him. His electric torch in his hand, he sped unerringly down the wings, with the roar of commotion in his cars, to where an apparent scene-shifter handed him a long coat. Through a seldom-used door at the back of the box office he gained the entry which led to the street, attracting in that bedlam of confusion no particular attention. He was less than forty yards now from safety, with no alarm given with which he could be connected, and he passed swiftly down the flagged way. On the pavement outside, however, he almost ran into a sergeant of the police, who, with a constable, was gazing up at the suddenly darkened Opera House. Under ordinary circumstances, Grant might have passed unnoticed, but, with the uncomfortable sense of something being wrong behind that lack of illumination, the sergeant swung round and challenged him.

"Where are you going, my man?" he asked, blocking the way. "Queer sort of outfit you've got on, haven't you?"

"I'm in the chorus at the opera—just finished. Off home," Grant explained, without undue haste.

Again the answer might have been satisfactory, but at that moment a number of windows on the first floor of the Opera House were thrown open and an eager clamour of voices rang out. The house was still in darkness. The sergeant laid his hand heavily upon Grant's shoulder.

"You'll wait a minute, my man," he decided. "Constable, find out what's wrong."

The policeman turned away, running towards the entrance. The sergeant suddenly felt the dull pressure of metal against his side, and the faint, sickening pain of a mortal blow. He reeled around, struggling for action or speech, and finding neither possible in a world of wheeling lights and images, on an earth which seemed to be swallowing him up. He collapsed upon the pavement and never moved again. . . .

Grant, making his unhurried way across the street, found himself, owing to the delay, caught now in the throng which was rushing up to the front of the Opera House, once more brilliantly illuminated. He pushed along as well as he could, but when at last he reached the opposite curb he found himself face to face with a very ugly-looking red-headed policeman in whose eyes there was a determined gleam.

"You'll come along with me," was his greeting. "Don't make any fuss about it, my lad. We'll have these on, if you don't mind."

Grant's answer was the quickest draw that redheaded policeman had ever seen in his life and a bullet in the exact centre of his forehead. He staggered round for a moment, his mouth still open, a pitiful wonder in his questioning eyes. Then lie collapsed heavily and lay across the pavement, face downwards. Grant, now the centre of observation from those who were not fighting their way into the Opera House, crept along the side of the wall, his gun still threatening, whilst the fingers of his other hand raised a slim, black whistle to his lips. The street was full of turmoil, half the people trying to get towards the Opera House, the other half, attracted by the shooting, looking over one another's shoulders, but keeping a fairly wide ring around the creeping figure. Suddenly the whistle rang out and the old cry broke from Grant's lips:

"Hornets sting! Hornets sting!"

The crowd rocked and swayed upon its feet, its ranks broken by the little company of fierce assailants who seemed to have leaped up from nowhere. They were falling in around Grant, bustling him along. A sergeant and half-a-dozen policemen charged valiantly in. Steel flashed. There was the yell of a dying man and the crowd dispersed in terror. Another shot rang out. Reinforcements for the police came rushing up. They made for the gangsters valiantly, to find them melting away in every direction. They fought through to the wall, but there was no Grant. When they had finished searching for him, there were no Hornets.

Back in the Opera House, tragedy was perhaps as real, but scarcely so rampant. Kronzy, released from his bonds, declared that four men purporting to be his friends had visited him in his dressing room, taken him unawares, drugged and bound him, and stolen the clothes which his dresser had laid out and in which one of his assailants had promptly attired himself. After this, he lost consciousness. Mirada, with a terrible red patch upon her throat, her nerves, as she declared, ruined for life, screamed to every one of the fast arriving journalists that her jewels, the savings of a lifetime, the inspiration of her genius, had been torn from her throat and arms by Kronzy. She valued them at two hundred and fifty thousand pounds and demanded the money that night in cash from the directors of the Opera House. Such directors as were present listened and stole away in respectful wonder, Kronzy recited his adventure a dozen times to anyone who would listen to it, demanded three months' salary, and pleaded for a railway ticket to Budapest and a loan to pay his hotel bill.

"You shall not go, for you are a thief!" Mirada screamed. "No other man save you could have found his way on to the stage in your clothes, arranged for the extinction of the lights, and torn those jewels from my throat even in the moment when I held my audience spellbound. Give me my jewels! Give me my jewels!"

"A thief? You call me a thief?" he shouted. "You, Mirada, whom I adore! I steal your jewels!"

"Where are they then?"

"Search me. I am penniless. I am ruined!"

Then the news of the street fighting came out, and as the directors were moderately kind and the condition of Kronzy's dressing room bore out his story, she fell in his arms and decided to forgive him. To the directors themselves, however, she was adamant.

"Never again in your country do I sing," she swore, "until my jewels arc restored."

Nor did she.

br>Those were fierce moments with Grant in the car, cunningly driven to evade pursuit down the Mall, its number plates and lighting already changed. Off with the belted coat, the coarse shirt, the breeches and boots. In his silk underclothes, the fugitive paused for breath for a single moment.

He spoke down the tube—a curt monosyllable. The answer was reassuring. Shoes and silk socks—the shirt—how the links mocked him!—collar—white tie—he had never tied a better bow—waistcoat—coat. He draped the silk-lined black cape on his arm and spoke once more the monosyllable down the tube. Still all right. He spoke again. The chauffeur pulled in to the side of the road under some trees, leaped down, opened the door, and held out his arms. Silently his master handed him the discarded garments. He flung them into the luggage case behind. Off again, and in another five minutes they pulled up in front of Flood's Club. A moment later the car was rushed away, to be dismantled by skilful fingers in a secret garage. Grant strolled into the vestibule of the club, handed his coat and hat to a vestiaire, and pulled a bell.

"Anything in yet on the tape, Marks?" he asked, as he waited.

"Nothing for some time, sir."

"Who's at the table?"

"Mr. Chaplain Lane, sir—alone."

A triumph! His ghost came silently down the room. Grant slipped into the lavatory and straightened his tie. Then he looked over his double, who, according to instructions, had entered from the other side.

"Quite good," he approved. "Try the tie a little fuller next time. Get your clothes off like lightning now and clear out. There's a job on."

Perfect staff work! The man disappeared as though into the bowels of the earth. Grant strolled into the restaurant with the air of one who had spent the whole evening there and made his way to the round table under the musicians' gallery, where he took the discarded chair of his departed ghost. Chaplain Lane nodded to him in perfunctory fashion. George, the waiter, approached. He seemed paler and more phantom-like than ever tonight, but his hungry eyes were agleam as he watched the newcomer.

"I was thinking of taking away the wine, sir," he confided. "It will soon be time."

Grant nodded and held out a tumbler, which was promptly filled to the brim. He raised it to his lips and set it down empty. The waiter silently refilled it and glided away. Just then, there was the usual little bustle at the doorway which indicated new arrivals. Martha, white as a sheet, entered, followed by Nick of New York. They came straight to the table. The girl's eyes as she looked at Grant were full of a sort of fascinated wonder. Even the hardened young criminal from New York seemed shaken.

"Eustace Grant," the girl declared, under her breath, "you're the most amazing person in the world. But how I hate you!"

"What my personal feelings may be," Nick Conklin said in his soft, precise voice, "I will not disclose. But I raise my glass to you, Eustace Grant, in amazement. A professional myself, I acknowledge your supremacy. How you got off the stage, got through that fight without a scratch, and reached here with your tie perfect, not a hair of your head disarranged, in less than half an hour, is a simple miracle. I could never have believed such foresight, such enterprise, such staff work, possible. No other man in the world, in your country or mine, could have done it. That is a painful but an honest confession, and I guess I've got to make it."

Eustace Grant smiled—a long, joyous smile of self-content.

"Nick, my friend," he said, "I accept your congratulations because I have a right to them. There was never anything planned in this world like my coup of to-night. Were there any special editions out when you came?"

Nick Conklin produced a seventh edition from his pocket—a news-sheet of a single page only. He read out the headlines:


MIRADA'S PRICELESS JEWELS STOLEN
IN DESPERATE STRUGGLE UPON THE STAGE
AT COVENT GARDEN
THIEF ESCAPES IN TERRIBLE GANG FIGHT
OUTSIDE OPERA HOUSE:
SEVEN MEN KILLED AND MANY WOUNDED
HOUSE TO HOUSE SEARCH FOR MURDERERS
HOME SECRETARY AND CHIEF COMMISSIONER
ON THEIR WAY TO VISIT THE SCENE.

"What about the tape?" Grant asked.

"Still ticking," Nick answered. "I looked at it as I came in. There's nothing more than in the paper, though."


A little sandy-haired man appeared in the vestibule and glanced around the place. He made his way nervously into the room and spoke to several of the people seated at the tables. He drank a glass of wine with one of them and presently departed. Eustace Grant summoned a maître d'hôtel.

"Who was that, Louis?" he asked. The man shook his head.

"Only a restaurant guest, sir—comes here now and again—connected with one of the newspapers, I believe."

"What did he want to know?" Grant enquired.

"Whether there was anyone of note here, sir. He seemed interested in you—wanted to know whether you'd been here all the evening."

Grant smiled.

"Well, there's no doubt about that, is there?" he remarked.

"Not the slightest, sir. I was able to assure him that you hadn't left the place since I arrived myself, at eight o'clock."

"Was he really a press man?" Martha ventured, as the maître d'hôtel took his leave.

Eustace Grant shook his head.

"That was Inspector Gibbs in mufti," he observed. "I was too close to him for his safety more than once to-night. That's where our system of ghosts comes in, you see, Nick. You might ask one person and remain unconvinced, but when every one in this room assures you what some of them probably believe—that I haven't left the place since eight o'clock—you're done. You can't work up a case against an alibi like that. You had your money's worth out of those opera tickets, I hope?" he remarked, turning to Martha. "I wonder whether I shall get mine."

She returned his gaze, and in his hour of triumph Grant's heart sank.

"They say they're worth at least a hundred thousand pounds, which ought to pay you," she rejoined.</story>