<story title="CROOKS PAY" date="1929">
"WHAT," Nick of New York asked, stretching himself out with the lazy content of a man who has come to the end of a wholesome and well-spent day, "might be the value in English pounds—not dollars, mind—of the Duchess of Clarence's famous diamond, 'The Light of China'?"

There was no immediate response from any one of the seven men who were seated at a round table in the private cocktail bar at Flood's Club. They all turned towards Amos Grimmett, generally known as Old Grim, the most famous valuer and receiver of stolen jewels in the world, who happened to be the guest of honour that evening. He was a carefully dressed, middle-aged man, of Jewish appearance, with fresh complexion, clean-shaven, and with brown eyes like gimlets. He hesitated for some moments before he pronounced judgment.

"You're asking something, Mr. Conklin," he acknowledged thought fully. "I don't want to give you a hasty answer. Let me think for a moment."

George, the faithful waiter attached permanently to the little company, came silently to the table and busied himself with the rearrangement of the glasses. He too seemed to find some absorbing interest in Amos Grimmett's anticipated reply.

"In its present form," the latter declared at last, "I should value the stone at one million pounds and I should congratulate the buyer rather than the seller. Broken up, I presume you would ask me what I would give for it."

"We shall arrive at half the value that way, anyhow," was Eustace Grant's dry comment.

"There is no one in the world who is willing to do business connected with which there is a great deal of risk," Amos Grimmett pronounced didactically, "unless he makes a profit. I have to make a profit and I have to guard against accidents. A club dinner here every week or so, my house at Hampstead, and my bachelor apartment at Brighton suit me a great deal better than the stripes and arrow on the other side of the fence. For breaking up, I should offer you a hundred thousand pounds for the stone."

"Have you ever seen it?" Br adman asked.

"Once only, under difficulties. It was exhibited at Christie's for a week, when the late Duke thought of selling it. We had to look at it from behind bars, with a detective on each side of us, and to accept the guaranteed weight. As I do not frequent Buckingham Palace or the opera, I never expect to see it again."

"Oh, you can't tell," Nick Conklin remarked. "I had an idea—in fact, I may say that I am making plans—to go after it."

There was a flash of excitement in George's sombre face. Every one else laughed derisively.

"Father of Abraham!" Amos Grimmett muttered. "Why, young fellow, you wouldn't have a dog's chance."

Sam Rubens, famous at his job, a cracksman who had broken into more impossible safes than any other criminal in the world, smiled in superior fashion.

"Nick, my lad," he advised, "let the idea float away. I used to declare that there was no safe which couldn't be tackled, given time, the right tools and the right stuff. I have seen the duplicate of the safe in Clarence House in the Bank of Montreal, and I have eaten my words. I reckon I'm top of the tree at my job and I'll lay fifty to one in tenners that there isn't a man breathing can break into that safe."

"Sam's right," Chaplain Lane declared. "I went over its specifications once when I was with Tyson's gang and we decided that there was nothing doing,"

Nick Conklin finished his cocktail and nodded amiably.

"You're right, both of you," he assented. "Anyway, I'm a mug of a safe-breaker. I wasn't thinking of doing the job that way."

"Just going to call upon her Grace, I suppose, and ask her to show it to you," Grant observed with a smile. "You Americans have more nerve than we have."

"Not exactly that way, either," Nick said gently. "The Duchess is wearing it, I understand, at the Drawing-Room on Tuesday and again at the reception she is giving on Tuesday night. That is so, isn't it, Miss Dring?"

"Yes," Martha acquiesced, "unless she changes her mind."

"I shall have to risk her changing her mind," Nick acknowledged. "I thought of planning for Tuesday night."

There was a little ripple of laughter around the table. Even Grant shook his head.

"You'd never get within a hundred yards of her," he declared. "Besides which, if you did, you'd never get away."

Nick thrust his hand into his pocket and produced a roll of drawing paper. He spread it out upon the table and disclosed a couple of elaborate plans.

"You fellows don't seem to think much of me as a worker," he complained, handing them across the table. "When I go out after anything I generally mean having it, and as to not getting away from Clarence House, just study that plan for a moment, will you? You will see that there are no fewer than seventeen possible exits. The one I have chosen is marked in red ink. Nice piece of work that for an amateur draughtsman!"

"It's a wonderful piece of work," Eustace Grant, admitted, passing the plan on to his neighbour, "but, as I told you before, you won't have a chance of getting near the woman. This isn't one of those big political stunts like you have in the States, where any one can break in. It's an ultra-fashionable society function, given for the purpose of entertaining foreign royalty. You'll never get near the house!"

Nick of New York felt in the breast pocket of his coat and drew out two very beautifully engraved cards. He passed one across the table to Grant, who studied it through his monocle:


The Duchess of Clarence
AT HOME
Clarence House
March 17th. 10-3.
Mr. Nicholas.


"Here's yours," the invited guest added, presenting a similar card to Martha. "If I make a mess of things myself, I'll try my best not to get you into trouble."

She stared at the card wonderingly.

"I'm beginning to have confidence in you, Nick," she confessed, "but I shall be glad when this little show is over."

Eustace Grant returned the invitation to its owner.

"Well," he said, "we've found out by this time that you have enterprise, Nick, but if you'll take my advice, you'll drop this stunt. My opinion is that there isn't a human being alive who could bring it off."

"But why not?" Nick persisted.

"Because," Grant explained earnestly, "the only moment when you will be really near the Duchess is when you make your arrival bow. All the rest of the time, she will be surrounded by royalties, and, as a matter of social etiquette, you couldn't possibly approach. You might cut the stone from her neck, perhaps, when you make your bow, but what would be the good of it? There will be a couple of detectives within a few feet of her and you will be wedged in amongst a crowd of Englishmen who, with all their faults, as you know, are not cowards. Any attempt at rough-house business would be simply absurd. With both those fiendish little automatics of yours going, you still couldn't fight your way a dozen yards."

Nick of New York smiled happily.

"You've got me all wrong, Major," he protested. "I have a nice invitation here to a perfectly swell party, and, with a young lady like Miss Dring to look after, you don't think I should behave like a tough, do you? We're not going to make any sort of a disturbance at the Duchess' party, I can promise you that. Just a bow and a civil word, a glass or two of champagne and perhaps a caviar sandwich, and—au revoir. But all the same—I may bring away 'The Light of China'."

"Bet you a monkey you don't," Grant challenged.

Nick indulged in a slight grimace.

"I shouldn't call it exactly level betting," he complained, "but I'll take you once. . . . By-the-by, did I hear that Sam Rubens was going out to-night?"

Passiter grinned scornfully.

"It's Sam's night, all right," he assented, "but he doesn't need to go out for it. He's got hold of a mug and he's going to fleece him here."

"In he in the competition?" Martha enquired.

"The Chief's let him in," Passiter grumbled.

Eustace Grant tapped a cigarette upon the table and lit it.

"Card sharping," he observed, "is certainly the lowest branch of our profession, but, after all, Sam is one of us, and that's his specialty. I remember three or four years back, when things weren't going so well, we were very glad of those few thousands of which he relieved an Argentine gentleman after the Lincoln. It's not high-class work, but we've got to let him in. And that reminds me, his man's downstairs. We'd better dine."

They all trooped down to take their places at the famous round table under the musicians' gallery. Sam Rubens was waiting there, thin and dark, with lean face and hungry eyes, correctly enough dressed in tail coat and white waistcoat, but with a quaint air of aloofness from the class of people who might be supposed to so attire themselves. His companion and guest presented a far more remarkable appearance. He was probably the fattest young man that anyone of the party had ever beheld before in their lives. His shoulders, which seemed to be bursting out of a very capacious dinner jacket, were immense. His pink-and-white face was as round as the sun. His stomach, as part of the anatomy of a young man, was incredible. His sponsor, however, seemed to find nothing unusual about him and introduced him with gusto to the rest of the company.

"My friend, Mr. Ned Fordham," he announced. "Comes from the north of England—Manchester way. Somewhere where they know how to feed them, eh, Ned?"

The young man grinned. He spoke with a broad, north country accent.

"Ay, lad," he declared. "I've eaten all there was in Manchester, and I've come to London to pick up a bit. I've met with this young mon to start with," he added, with a little guffaw.

There was a certain amount of hand-shaking.

"I am sorry that the rules of the club did not permit of our inviting you to the bar," Eustace Grant explained politely. "I trust that Sam has seen that you had a cocktail here."

"He's seen that I had four, and it would have been five if you had been a minute longer," Mr. Ned Fordham confided. "I don't like that rule of yours, Mister. I've been brought up in bars. I've spent most of my time in them and I love 'em."

"Our club is very small and our members like to keep together," Grant apologised. "I understand, Mr. Fordham, that you are a great card player," he added, as they took their seats.

"Oh, ay, I play a bit," was the deprecatory response. "The folks up here are a trifle hot for me, but I've tumbled into a bit of brass, so they're welcome. Are you going to take me on?"

Eustace Grant shook his head.

"We're none of us great card experts here," he admitted. "Sam's our principal performer, but they tell me he's not quite so good as he thinks he is. He'll play with you after dinner, though, if you want a game."

"I'm out for a game, all right, or I shouldn't be here," the fat young man responded heartily. "My folks tell me that it's a soft way of losing your money, but it's my brass, after all, to do what I like with, and, though I'm not bragging, it will take a bit of getting through."

They glanced at him—Passiter, Rubens, Bradman and Chaplain Lane—with a hungry respect for his wealth. Two people at the table, at least, were enjoying Sam Rubens. Eustace Grant suddenly looked across the room, and waved his hand to a young man who had just made a timorous entrance.

"Come along, Jack," he invited. "We've an empty place to-night, and we've a friend here I don't think you've met," he added, indicating Nick of New York. "Conklin, this is Jack Costigan."

The dark young man with the shiny hair accepted the chair on Nick's left and lost no time in making himself known to his neighbour.

"I've heard of you often," he confided. "Jimmy Peake, who got the chair last month for putting a cop wise as to where he belonged, was a pal of mine. You worked with him once or twice, didn't you?"

"Oh, yes, I remember Jimmy," Nick admitted drily; "a decent fellow, but rash."

"I've been wanting to meet you ever since you arrived," the newcomer went on. "You know who I am?"

"I think I can guess," Nick admitted. "You're Jack Costigan, aren't you, who runs the Bermondsey gang—-the Hornets, you call yourselves."

"You're dead right, and let me tell you this, sir. We're not such gunmen as you fellows on the other side, but we put them away, all right. Just a flick here"—he touched with a long, and not too clean forefinger, the side of his neighbour's waistcoat—"and you've got yours all right. No fuss, no noise, no risk to speak of. You leave the knife behind. We have them made common on purpose."

"This is very interesting," Nick Conklin confessed, studying his companion for a moment or two more closely. "Where are you to be met with?"

"Well, I eat here pretty often, gut I ain't a member. I wish I were," the young man added, with almost pathetic wistfulness. "There ain't anything in life I'd rather have than to be a member of the club. Not class enough yet, I reckon. I work for the Major sometimes, though, and I'd be proud lo work for you, if you're looking for help at any time. When I'm not to be heard of here, I'm at the Mariners' Alley, Rotherhithe. I'll write it down for you."

He lore off a piece of the menu, and with painstaking care, wrote an address which Nick pocketed.

"Let me sec," the latter reflected, "it was you lads did in John Simon, the leather merchant, wasn't it, and made that big haul?"

The young man's face glowed with triumph.

"I did that job myself," he boasted—"couldn't trust anyone else. The loot was too heavy. The old fool was asking for it too—with four thousand pounds in treasury notes and bills under his bed."

"He sure was," Nick Conklin acquiesced, sipping his champagne thoughtfully. "Your job that, eh?"

"And a few others I can tell you of, when we've a little more time," the young man promised. "You see, like most of my lads, I was kind of born with a knife in my hand. We all worked for the tanners or fellmongers in Bermondsey. I was earning six quid a week when I chucked it."

"You're doing a lot better than that now?" his neighbour speculated.

"You bet," was the scornful reply. "Pleasanter life too. I just hang round the pubs in the late morning and sometimes pick up a likely lad or two, and then have a look at the West End in the afternoon to see if I'm wanted. Then, once a week, we go out on our own. There's generally someone who's looking for trouble—got too rich or getting too chatty or something of that sort."

"We'll do business before long," Nick promised him.

"And jolly proud we shall be," the gangster declared. "They're great readers, my lads—scarcely one of them who don't take the New York Police Gazette. You won't find Nick of New York any stranger, sir."

Dinner drew towards a close and, in the absence of any inspiring contribution to the conversation from his other guest, Eustace Grant presently led the way up to the cardroom on the second floor which was reserved for such occasions as this, or for a surreptitious game of chemin de fer. More liqueur brandies were served and, with a good deal of chaff, the business of the evening was discussed.

"Seems to me a lot of fuss about a simple game of cards," the fat young man remarked suspiciously. "Don't seem as though you played very often, either," he added, looking around.

"As a matter of fact, we don't," Eustace Grant admitted, from the depths of an easy-chair. "The only game we really all care for is chemin de fer, and that's unfortunately illegal."

"That's a game I'd like to know," Mr. Fordham announced eagerly. "Couldn't we have a go to-night?"

Eustace Grant shook his head.

"Daren't risk it," he regretted. "I'm Chairman of the Committee and I can't see the rules broken. Clubs in the middle of London like this have to be run on pretty strict lines nowadays."

Mr. Fordham looked peevish hut consoled himself with a huge cigar. "Bring out the cards then, lad," he directed Rubens. "I'll soon see what you're made of."

The latter produced a brown paper parcel with elaborate carelessness, cut the strings, and threw half a dozen packs upon the table. With clumsy fingers, the fat boy broke the outer coverings.

"I'll go you through the pack red or black a fiver a time," he suggested. "Just for a breather, eh?"

"Who deals?" Sam Rubens asked cautiously.

"We can cut," the other proposed.

Sam hesitated, but only for a moment. He looked upon the affair as a waste of time, but his guest must be kept in a good humour.

"All right," ho agreed. "Lowest deals."

He cut a three, but Fordham produced a two. He proved, also, a remarkably good guesser, for at the end of the deal he was forty fivers up to his opponent's twelve. The latter was a little dazed, a little rattled too, by the ripples of amusement around.

"Have another go?" Fordham invited. "This is good enough for me. Twenty-eight fivers you owe me, my lad."

"It's a fool's game," Sam Rubens declared irritably. "We'll play poker."

Fordham looked dubious.

"We are old-fashioned folks up north," he observed. "Nap and vingt-et-un are our mark. Poker's that game where you have five cards and bet, ain't it?—one pair, two pairs, three of a kind?"

"Admirably defined," Eustace Grant sneered. "I should think you'd better play nap."

The young man looked at him with a frown. When he frowned, his face seemed to go into creases.

"It don't take me more than a few minutes to learn any game," he boasted. "Give me a drop more of that brandy and I'll skin him."

Chips were counted out. Memorandum blocks for I.O.U.'s were produced, and the stage generally set for the contest. Martha, standing by the side of Eustace Grant, looked on scornfully.

"I think I'd rather see fighting," she confided. "Sam looks like a greedy little ferret and that absurd young man has drunk too much."

"Well, you couldn't sympathise with such an atrocity," Grant remarked. "I wonder how much money he really has? A hundred thousand pounds, Sam told me. More than he'll be able to get rid of in one night, anyway."

"You're thinking about the competition?" she

"Perhaps I am," he admitted. "I'm not afraid of Sam, anyhow. If we carry the thing through lo the end, it will probably be a showdown between Nick of New York and me. Do you think he's really serious about 'The Light of China'?" he added, dropping his voice.

She shrugged her shoulders.

"He boasts, like you all do," she observed, "but there's generally something behind what he says."

Eustace Grant looked frowningly at the ash upon his cigar.

"If by any miracle he got that," lie muttered, "we might as well throw in our hands at once. You heard Amos Grimmett's valuation this afternoon?"

"Yes, I heard it, but I don't believe in miracles. Neither Nick of New York nor any one else in the world could get away with that."

Eustace Grant pondered for a moment. His stealthy, light-coloured eyes rested steadily on the girl. He convinced himself that she was keeping nothing from him and he breathed a sigh of relief.

"You're right," he agreed. "It's an impossibility."


The poker duel commenced and continued without much initial interest. The young man from Manchester, with hands generally inferior to his opponent's, bet cautiously and lost steadily. Sam Rubens recovered his spirits and his confidence. He leaned back in his chair. He chattered to his friends. He chaffed his adversary.

"Time we got going, Big Ned," he mocked. "Have a go at me this time. I raise you fifty quid. Take a look at what I got. A full house will beat me, maybe."

The fat young man threw down his cards with a scowl. Sam was benignly triumphant.

"Stick it out, fat boy," he urged, as he dealt himself two aces, and a pair of twos to his adversary, "your time will come. One card? There you are. One for the dealer and I'll back my threes against yours."

"Make it another fifty then," Fordham declared savagely and promptly went down with his three twos. "Give me a whisky and soda," he demanded. "I can't play this game dry."

"Serve my guest everything he desires," Sam Rubens begged, "and give me the same."

It was Fordham's deal next and directly he saw the cards he threw himself back in his chair with a whoop of joy.

"There's a good time coming for us all," he chanted. "How many, laddie?"

Sam Rubens made a grimace. It cost him an effort, for he had four aces.

"One," he decided, after much hesitation.

"I'll play what I've got," his opponent declared with riotous exultation, "and double the ante."

"Look here," Eustace Grant intervened, from his easy-chair by the fire, "I think it's only fair to give Mr. Fordham a hint. You shouldn't give your hand away like that, sir. If you've something good, sit tight. Half the art of poker is concealment. You don't mind, Sam."

"Oh, no," the latter answered peevishly. "I want to play the game sporting. I see you and raise you fifty, Fordham."

"Making it three hundred," the latter calculated. "Try six hundred."

Sam Rubens paused. He had put his opponent down at first with a straight. It might be a flush, or even a full house, but even if it were fours, it was beaten by his four aces. There was nothing ahead but a straight flush.

"Try a thousand," he countered.

"Make it two thousand," the fat boy squeaked.

They were all around the table now. Sam Rubens was still confident but not disposed to risk catastrophe.

"See you," he decided. "Four aces here."

"I've got a run of those little chaps all in one suit," Fordham announced, apparently scarcely able to speak for excitement. "One, two, three, four, five of spades. How's that?"

"Straight flush," Passiter gasped. "My God, he wins!"

Sam Rubens had lost all his winnings and more besides. He drained his whisky and soda, however, and did his best to pull himself together. This was outrageous luck, of course—damnable, outrageous luck, but still hopeless against science. Several hands were played quietly. Then he timed his coup. He dealt, looked at his cards, and laid them face downwards upon the table.

"I double the ante," he declared.

"I redouble," Fordham rejoined, swaying a little in his seat.

"Very well," Sam Rubens agreed. "That's two hundred to come in. How many cards?"

"I'll play what I've got," Fordham decided, with a grin. "Four hundred."

"Eight hundred."

"Sixteen hundred."

"Three thousand, two hundred."

The fat young man was sweating from every pore.

"If I only understood the game," he moaned. "I'm not scared, anyway. Double."

There was a quiver of emotion. Probably at that moment the coolest person in the room was Sam Rubens. He saw heaven opening before him.

"That was rash of you, fat boy," he jeered, "because it gives me the opportunity of making it twelve thousand, eight hundred pounds. That's what it will cost you to see me. Feel like it, eh?"

Fordham groaned.

"I may have got the hang of this wrong," he lamented. "I got to see, though."

Down on the table, from Sam Rubens' hand, damp with perspiration went the cards.

"Nine, ten, jack, queen, king of spades," he cried hoarsely, leaning forward and looking into his opponent's face with glittering eyes.

One by one Fordham's cards followed on to the table.

"I got the same as the last time," he declared, "but they ain't little ones. Ten, jack, queen, king, ace of hearts."

There was a second's breathless silence. Sam Rubens sat quite still, a strange, dramatic figure, numb and speechless. His eyes were like burning pools of light, fixed upon the fatal cards. Suddenly he was on his feet. His hand shot out towards his adversary. His lips were pale. His eyes seemed to disappear into caverns of white flesh. There was fury in his tone.

"Them ain't the cards I gave you," he yelled.

The fat young man, marvellously composed, grinned at him.

"Why, of course they ain't, Sam," he agreed. "You don't suppose I'd bet that way on what you gave me against a framed hand."

"You're a cheat!" his opponent shouted.

"Why, didn't you know it?" Ned Fordham asked wonderingly. "Ain't you?"

The argument was ended, so far as Sam Rubens was concerned, for, with a little stuttering cry, he collapsed in his place. The conqueror tapped his glass and the gesture being favourably received, he opened his mind to the company.

"I was invited here," he confided, "to have a bout with the most famous crook gambler in London, so notorious that there ain't a barman who don't warn the suckers against him. I've played him at his own game and he calls me a cheat. He can't pretend he thought I was a sucker. That wouldn't go anywhere. Sit down, young lady, opposite me, please—just to oblige."

Sam Rubens remained barely conscious—a white, stupefied figure. Martha obeyed the fat young man's invitation. He dealt five cards to her.

"Von bet, madam," he invited. "Never mind the chips."

"But I have only four cards," she pointed out.

"But I dealt you five," he insisted. "Look under the tablecloth."

She lifted it up and discovered the missing card. There was an awed murmur from the bystanders. The young man from Manchester stretched out his hand.

"Give me a pack," he begged—"any pack." Passiter placed one in his hand. He dealt five cards to himself and took five others from the top of the pack. Even as he held them there, they disappeared.

"Now, madam," he said, "your bet."

"But I have no cards," she protested.

"That's queer!"

He looked up to the ceiling and slapped the table with his hand. This time it seemed to everyone present that a miracle had happened. One by one the cards came fluttering down and fell in front of Martha in a regular line. She uttered a little shriek and left her place.

"What you folks have seen," Fordham declared, turning to Eustace Grant, "was a trial of skill between two famous card crooks. I want to ask you this, sir. If I bad lost, would Sam Rubens there have expected my brass?"

"He certainly would," Grant admitted, "and we stayed here to see that you paid."

"Ain't it justice, then, that I should get mine?" Ned Fordham demanded.

"It certainly is," Grant replied, "and you shall have it."

Sam Rubens looked up. The spirit had died out of him. He was a limp, nerveless object, his hand still shaking, his voice toneless.

"Do I have to pay him?" he asked Grant piteously.

"You certainly do," was the firm response. "How much have you on you in cash?"

"Nineteen hundred pounds," the young man groaned, producing a wad of notes.

Grant counted the money and pressed the bell. After a brief delay, Charles appeared.

"Tell Mr. Flood to bring down his account book," Grant directed.

There was another brief delay. No one seemed Inclined for speech. The fat young man lounged back in his chair, his cigar in the corner of his mouth, his hands in his pockets. Presently Flood presented himself.

"How much have you standing to Sam Rubens' account, Flood?" Grant enquired.

"Four thousand, four hundred pounds, and a trifle of interest," was the prompt reply. "Against that, there's his drink and restaurant bill for a month."

"We'll see to that," Grant decided, drawing his check-book from his pocket and writing rapidly. "Make out a check on the club account, Flood, to Mr. Ned Fordham here."

"For the four thousand, four hundred pounds?"

"Every penny. There you are, Fordham," Grant went on, pushing the notes across the table. "Nineteen hundred pounds in cash, a club check for four thousand, four hundred, and mine here for the balance, less two hundred pounds for the chips."

The young man from Manchester collected the money and check and thrust them into his pocket with a grin.

"Well," he confided, "you Londoners are all right. I knew you were mostly crooks and I never thought I should touch the whole of this."

Grant held open the door for him. No one offered to shake hands.

"You'll collect your other check from Mr. Flood in the office downstairs," he said. "We may be what you have called us, but—crooks pay."

Sam Rubens looked up, white and distraught, from the depths of his chair.

"Am I cleaned out, Chief?" he faltered.

"You are," was the stern response.

"Every bob?"

"Every bob. It was the worst show I ever saw. Bad enough to lose to the law, but when you can't tell a cleverer crook than yourself from a sucker, it's time you went out of business, Sam. We've no more use for you."

The young man listened to his Chief's edict and staggered towards the curtained recess at the farther end of the room.

"Crooks pay," he echoed, as he pressed his gun to his temple and pulled the trigger.</story>