<story title="THE PASSING OF NICK OF NEW YORK" date="1929">
THE psychic moment was at hand. They were together—Martha Dring and Nick of New York—wedged in the little crowd, waiting to get into line, to pay their respects to the Duchess of Clarence, their famous hostess. Martha, who was unusually pale, drew her companion on one side.

"Mr. Conklin—Nick," she exclaimed breathlessly—"you see that tall, dark man, almost by the Duchess' side?"

"I see him."

"I know who he is," she went on. "It is Superintendent Erasmus, from Scotland Yard. That short man with whom he is talking is a detective too. You see, they are exactly opposite the Duchess and they watch everyone who speaks to her. Give it up, Nick, please," she begged. "You can see that there isn't any possible chance. Give it up—for my sake as well as your own."

He glanced across the crowded space to where the Duchess, standing on a slightly raised dais, was receiving her guests. She was a handsome woman, of very distinguished presence, who would have been noticeable anywhere apart from the amazing adornment she wore—a single diamond, "The Light of China," the largest stone in the world, which flashed upon her bosom—a pear-shaped oval of glittering fire. The chain from which it hung was of platinum, encrusted with smaller diamonds of the finest quality, so that a narrow rivulet of flame seemed to run round her neck and disappear into the reservoir of brilliancy below. Martha gave a gasp of wonder.

"It's worth travelling around the world to see!" she exclaimed.

"It will be worth having," Nick rejoined.

She laid her hand upon his arm.

"Dear man," she pleaded, "can't you see that any sort of an attempt would be simple suicide. You'll give it up for to-night, won't you?"

He looked at her with a slight frown. They had moved a yard farther forward by this time.

"You must remember that I am not going into this blindly," he said. "I have a scheme, which is, after all, an absurdly simple one. I can't tell whether it will work out until I am within a few feet of the Duchess, but I promise you that if it is hopeless, I'll give it up. I won't bungle, anyhow. I promise you that. And I won't get you into trouble."

"Give it up, Nick," she persisted. "It isn't worth it. You're clever, but you're not a magician. Let's think out something more practical."

"What else could there be?" he reminded her. "Mirada's jewels will be valued at something like a hundred thousand pounds. One can't beat that with trifles."

"Pay your five hundred pounds' forfeit," she whispered eagerly.

He indulged in a little grimace.

"I should be the laughing-stock of England and America," he reminded her. "It was I who proposed the whole business."

There was another movement forward. Nick Conklin skilfully piloted his companion into the line.

"Miss Dring," he whispered gravely, "I have seen several things which you probably haven't noticed and I have altered my plans slightly. I want you to push on ahead in the direction we have decided upon. You need not mind being alone. Heaps of people get separated from their escorts in this crush. I shall follow you in a few minutes and I promise you this. I'll let the thing alone if I decide that it is hopeless. Will you be content with that?"

"I suppose I must," she sighed, "but I'd rather you promised me now to give it up."

"Listen carefully," he went on, "for this is very important. You know how to reach your car?"

"Absolutely," she agreed.

"Walk straight away, when you have shaken hands with the Duchess, to where you left it, and drive round to the front entrance."

"To where?" she repeated, aghast.

"To the front entrance," he repeated firmly—"the one at which we arrived. Drive up as though you were bringing a guest. If I have decided to abandon the enterprise, or if I have had any luck, I shall be there. If I am not there, better just get away as quickly as you can. Don't wait. Mind that. I shall either be there when you arrive—or never."

She shivered a little but she knew very well that her companion was immovable.

"Very well," she assented sadly.

She moved on and Nick stepped out of the line for a moment. When he returned, she was some distance ahead.


Martha carried out her instructions to the letter. She duly made her bow and received an agreeable smile and handshake.

"I am sure," the Duchess murmured, "that you are that clever Miss Dring who does those marvellous designs for book covers."

Martha pleaded guilty.

"So intensely modern and interesting," the great lady continued. "Do bring me some to look at one day."

Martha passed on, with scarcely time for more than one glance of amazement at the marvellous jewel upon her hostess' bosom. She moved to the less crowded side of the room, easily found the door leading to the lift, and descended. The way out was perfectly clear, from the plan which she had studied, and she encountered no one who paid the slightest attention to her. Once she paused to listen, but, so far as she could hear, there was no disturbance behind. Her car was being guarded by one of Costigan's Hornets, who left it immediately at her approach, mounted his motor bicycle, and rode away to await her coming at the back entrance of the club. She started her engine and drove as slowly as possible down the side street, turning into the square with a sinking heart. She had scarcely a hope of seeing Nick. There were two cars ahead of her, setting down guests, which blocked her view. She loitered behind them and, when her turn came, crept up to the great canopy which stretched over the whole pavement to the curb, her fingers trembling as she felt for the brake. Her heart gave a terrific beat. There, standing alone on the bottom step, looking more than usually debonair in his black overcoat, silk hat and white kid gloves, stood Nick. Automatically she brought the car to a standstill. There was a blur before her eyes, a sob in her throat, which kept her speechless. He threw away his cigarette and slipped in by her side.

"The club," he murmured.

She was in full speed almost at once. In the Park he checked her. She drew up by the side of the road.

"You abandoned it?" she whispered.

"No, I didn't," he replied. "You can have just one look."

His hand stole out of his trousers pocket, his fingers slowly parted, and she gave a little cry. The car seemed filled with light, sparkling specks and gleams of fairy illumination. She was absolutely inarticulate as she sat with her eyes riveted upon the diamond. He replaced it in his pocket.

"I don't see how it was possible," she cried.

"Much that is impossible is accomplished in this world," he remarked, with a banality so obvious that she looked at him anxiously. He was staring straight ahead and for the first time she saw a hint of apprehension in his eyes.

"There's something you haven't told me," she insisted. "Is there any danger I don't know of? I can drive to the coast, if you like. I've petrol for a hundred and fifty miles—anywhere you choose. Don't look as though you saw ghosts."

"It is the ghosts that are to come I sec," he answered, with a certain new grimness. "Miss Dring," he went on, in an altered voice, "you have always been very kind to me. I want to ask you a last favour."

"Why this finality?" she enquired.

"The club's in danger—on its last legs," he told her. "They've been watching us for days. Grant knows that well enough. He's off to Abyssinia to-morrow and only praying that he gets there. We've run our course for the moment. He's going to propose to-night that we scatter."

"And what is this favour that you have to ask?"

"I want you to keep away from the club tonight," he begged.

She laughed scornfully.

"Do you really think that I am likely to?" she demanded. "I have a right to be there. I have worked for you all—more or less, if not seriously—and you know quite well what excitement means to me. Do you think I could stay away the night you are all going to sit round that table, with Amos Grimmett handling those marvellous jewels? Can't you see him? He'll be feeling at the same time the agony of pain at the idea of parting with the huge sums he will have to value some of the jewels at, and the thrill of the enormous profit he will make when he sells. Stay away, indeed, and not see you win the prize! You must be mad to suggest such a thing."

"Miss Dring," he began—

"Oh, don't be foolish," she interrupted. "Don't you know every one is going to tell his story. Eustace Grant is going to tell us exactly how he bound up that man in the dressing room, how he stole those jewels in the face of a thousand people and fought his way with the Hornets to safety. Besides, there's your story to tell, Nick. I'm crazy with curiosity to know how you took that jewel from the Duchess to-night. Stay away, indeed! You're mad!"

She started up the car and they shot away. He kept silent for several moments. Presently they turned into the quiet little street at the back of the club. She looked around her curiously.

"Nick," she asked him, "is it my fancy, or is the street full of shadows?"

"It is not your fancy," he groaned. "The street is full of shadows, but they are the shadows of men. Some of them were there last night. To-night there will be many more. There's your Hornet boy waiting. Miss Dring—Martha—for the love of God, do as I ask you! Go home!"

"Why?" she asked simply.

"Because there is danger here to-night," he urged—"danger from inside, as well as out. You know Passiter, Chaplain Lane, the doctor, and all of them. Do you think they're going to part with a fortune for which they have risked their lives to me, a foreigner, not even one of themselves?"

"Don't show it to them," she suggested. "Say that you failed. Pay the five hundred pounds fine. I'll take it home. No one will suspect me. I'll keep it for you safely."

He shook his head.

"It can't be done. I must weigh in with the others."

They were at a standstill now, outside the back door. The lad who had preceded them from Grosvenor Square was creeping up to the car.

"If you are obstinate, mon ami, so am I," she declared. "Please get out. I am coming in with you. I am going to sec the show to-night and I am going to hear how you accomplished your miracle."

He was back on his last defences.

"You're going to do neither," he snapped. "You're going to do as I beg, as I implore, as I insist upon your doing. You're going home now and to-morrow you shall hear everything."

She stood upon the edge of the rain-splashed pavement, with a faint gleam of watery moonlight shining upon her beautiful, angry face. The electric standard was out of order as usual—Angus Flood's men saw to that—but Nick could see her flaming eyes and the trembling of her soft lips. She scented danger and she was athirst for it. To be pushed back to safety by the man who was probably himself in more danger than any one else—it was unthinkable!

"I am going to see the show," she repeated doggedly, "and I am going to see it with you, if it is the last night of our lives. If I am in danger, you are in danger too, and I'd rather we went through it together. Chuck it yourself and I'll chuck it. Come back with me and stay away from tin's place, and I'll do the same."

"I can't do that," he told her gravely.

"Then come along," she insisted. "It's supper time and I want a cocktail."

Nick's groan was very bitter, but he raised his hand, and the haunting shadows of the place became very real indeed. Three stalwart men in dark clothes surrounded them.

"You will take this young lady in charge, Inspector," he ordered. "Quick! Don't let her scream."

His own hand was the first upon her mouth and she bit him savagely. Nevertheless, he was in time. She was furious but speechless. He stuffed his handkerchief between her teeth and withdrew his own bleeding fingers. She stared at him and at the blood dripping on to the pavement. Then, for the first time in her life, she fainted.

"Take her in one of the police cars to Marlborough Street," he directed. "See that she has a special wardress, a private room, and every comfort. I'll see about the charge in the morning. As a matter of fact, there won't be one."

"Very good, sir," one of the men answered.

They led her away. Nick Conklin took out his latchkey, and entered the back quarters of the club.


"Where are they all?" he asked Charlie, as he mounted to the bar.

The man pointed upstairs.

"They're getting ready for supper in the private cardroom, sir," he confided. "They left word for you to go up at once."

Nick made his way above. They were all there, mostly gathered around the tape—Eustace Grant, the doctor, Chaplain Lane, Passiter, Hungry John. Mr. Amos Grimmett was standing in the background in a state of considerable agitation. They swung round at his entrance and there was a little half-suppressed gasp. The only spoken words were Grant's.

"My God, it's Nick!"

"I'm here all right," was the cool reply. "How much have they got on that thing?"

Grant handed it over.

"Only a line or two." Nick read the few words:—

QUOTE An extraordinary sensation was produced at the Duchess of Clarence's reception to-night by a rumour heard during the evening that the most famous jewel in the world—'The Light of China'—belonging to the Duchess, had been stolen. The diamond is valued at over a hundred thousand pounds.

"I'll accept that valuation, Mr. Grimmett," Nick remarked, with a smile. "It ought to make me a winner."

"I'll value it all right for you, when you show me the stone," was the incredulous reply.

Nick's hand went into his pocket and out came the diamond. There was a murmur of indrawn human breaths, like the soughing of a south wind through a grove of cypresses. No one spoke; they crowded around, pushed and shouldered one another—all manners forgotten, the wild beast instinct predominating. One of the passions of the world had been let loose and become rampant. Nick was conscious of their hot breaths and greedy eyes, and he sensed a danger more imminent than any he had foreseen. He returned the stone to his pocket.

"I see Charlie's fixed a little bar up here," he pointed out. "What about a cocktail before we settle down and get to business?"

George hurried forward with a beaming smile.

"Let me mix them, sir," he suggested. "I'm very good at a Martini."

Nick shook his head, with his finger upon the bell.

"No one but Charlie's going to mix me a Martini in this club," he declared.

The little waiter crept near. There was almost a piteous light of entreaty in his eyes.

"Let me look at the stone, sir," he begged. "I couldn't get near with all those other gentlemen."

Nick drew out his prize and exposed it. The man's eyes seemed as though they would fall from his head.

"I used to wait at some wonderful places in New York before my trouble came, sir," he confided, "but I've never seen anything like that."

"There isn't anything in the world like it," Nick Conklin told him, as he replaced it in his pocket.

Charlie appeared and they made their way to the improvised bar. Nick drew back as he felt them pressing around him.

"Give me a little air," he remonstrated. "I had a twisting this evening and I need a drink quickly."

They yielded him space—unwillingly, it seemed to him. For the first time, Eustace Grant, who had held aloof from the others, spoke to him.

"Where is Miss Dring?" he enquired.

"All in," was the regretful reply. "She's gone home, but may come along later, if she feels like it. Our get-away wasn't quite so smooth as usual."

"Tell us about it?" Grant invited.

"Later on."

The cocktails were served, and more than ever Nick was conscious that the attitude of his companions towards him was entirely changed. He was not a nervous person, but he knew very well that he was in serious danger. He was continually being hustled. They seemed to be trying to get him into the middle of a little group—and afterwards! He had seen gangsters ringing. He extricated himself and turned to Grant.

"After we have had our supper and heard the valuations," he announced, "I have something to say to you all. I desire to modify the conditions of our show."

"This is interesting," Grant murmured. "What do you propose?"

"It's been a great sporting effort on the part of every one of you," Nick continued, "but I'm not a greedy man. I don't want all the boodle. Besides, there's one more job I think we might tackle before we close down."

Grant's colourless eyes glittered.

"There's one more I mean to tackle before I leave for Abyssinia," he confided to Nick, and, although the latter affected not to notice it, there was a threat in the muttered words.

"We must hear what our friend Nick has to say," Chaplain Lane suggested. "I am very glad that he has spoken. There is too much here for one man."

"Everyone has a personal right to what he risks his life for," the doctor declared sullenly.

Nick drank his cocktail without haste, but with the slow, casual enjoyment of the thoughtful drinker. Then he pointed to the table.

"I am hungry," he admitted.

They all moved over and took their places. Nick was the first to sit down. He chose a chair in the corner, near the bar, and with a view of the room. The others seated themselves at haphazard. It was a more or less unusual meal, but one in which the little company sometimes indulged during an all-night sitting. There was a large pâté of foie grasin the middle of the table and two stone jars of caviar on each side. George, moving briskly about, passed the steaming hot toast and opened the champagne. Grant, who seemed disquieted, for him almost nervous, rose from his place after the first glass.

"Excuse me, gentlemen," he begged. "I want to have a look down into the restaurant."

The room was exactly above the one where they usually took their cocktails, and the musicians' gallery was still below them. Grant stood looking downwards for more than a minute. When he returned, his face was clouded.

"Any news of Flood?" he asked.

"Not a word, not a line," Passiter replied. "His house is shut up, and all the news was that he had been removed to a nursing home somewhere in the country."

"Frankly, I can't understand this place since he has been away," Grant confided. "It's almost full now, but I can see scarcely a face I recognise. Jacky's there, with a new girl—I wish to the devil he'd keep clear of them—but except for him, I don't recognise any one. What do they all come here for? If we go on, we shall have to chuck the restaurant altogether."

"Damned expensive place to run like that," Chaplain Lane observed. "I believe you're fancying things, Grant. We do get a strange lot in sometimes, but we're a strange lot ourselves. I've been through to-night, and everything seemed to me to be as usual."

"Have a glass of wine, old chap," Hungry John suggested. "You're seeing things. George, cart the bottle round."

"I am not seeing things nor am I a fanciful person," Grant insisted. "I still say that there is something queer about the place, and has been ever since Angus Flood went home ill. I feel it more than ever to-night and I'm half inclined to send word to Jacky to have the Hornets up."

"It isn't a bad idea," Nick approved, as he deliberately buttered a piece of toast. "There were one or two unusual-looking loiterers around our stage door when I came in."

A message was sent down to the restaurant and in a few moments Costigan appeared.

"Notice anything out of the way downstairs, Jack?" Grant enquired.

The young man reflected.

"Well, I dunno," he replied. "There's rather a crowd and not many of the old gang. Country chaps, I should think. I got a new do&ntilde;a with me and I haven't been looking about much."

"Get the flying squad up," Grant ordered abruptly; "enough of them, at any rate, to hold the alley behind."

The young gangster's black eyes were wide open now.

"Is that straight, Guv'nor?" he demanded. Grant nodded.

"I daresay I'm all wrong," he admitted, "but there's been big business doing, and all London's swarming with detectives. The Hornets want work, they say, and they may get it. Anyway, they'll have their pay."

"This place doesn't seem quite right to the Chief," the doctor explained. "Maybe it's fancy, but a ride won't do the boys any harm."

"I'll have a score here in half an hour," Jack Costigan promised, "and I'll come up again for orders. We had a glorious scrap the other night, but they're all ready for another."

"You're getting me rattled," Nick observed nervously, as the young man left the room. "Let's get on with this business and call it a night."

There was a little murmur of assent. Amos Grimmett adjusted his pince-nez and leaned across the table.

"I say, Major," he began, "and all of you, I'm willing enough to come here and do this job for you, and maybe I'll be a buyer afterwards of any stuff we agree about, but there's one thing about me. You know very well I don't belong to the gang! I've never been in a rough-house in my life, and, with my nerves, I'm apt to get a little scared. Now, I'm not imagining there's going to be anything of a rough-house to-night, but why run any risks. If there's one thing I hate it's a gun. Hand them over to Charlie there. If there's any disagreement, let me settle it for you."

Every one looked doubtfully at the others. Grant, as he sat polishing his eyeglass, remembered that terrifying exhibition of Nick of New York on his first arrival. Unarmed, they were seven men to one. Nevertheless, he appeared to hesitate.

"Let's have them where we can get at them then," he proposed.

"Why not hand them to George," Nick ventured. "Personally, having been out to-night, I'd rather keep mine, but I'll join the majority."

The waiter, with a grin of delight, brought round a tray.

Even at the last moment Grant hesitated.

"Are the doors all locked, George?" he asked.

"Every one of them, sir. There's no one could get in here, short of battering the place to pieces."

Grant produced an automatic and laid it upon the table. The others followed suit. Nick, without a quiver, placed one of his famous flat automatics upon the tray and then stooped down.

"Wait a moment," he begged, "I've got another."

He produced a second from a secret pocket. Grant's eyes brightened.

"Take them away, George, and put them in the closet," he ordered.

George held the tray some distance from him, eyeing the glittering collection apprehensively.

"Are they all loaded, Major?" he enquired.

"They're all at safety, you fool," was the curt reply. "Now, Amos, let's get on with the business and then we'll discuss the distribution."

In the centre of the table stood a huge silver pot, once presented, half in jest, to the club for a golf prize, and won every successive year by Grant, Amos Grimmett leaned over and drew it towards him. He removed the chased lid and thrust in his hand.

"First of all," he announced, "I have here the collection of old-fashioned jewellery contributed by a regretted friend, Mat Sarson. One or two of the emeralds are very fine, but the setting of everything was ridiculous. There are sixteen stones altogether. The reward offered was five thousand pounds. I value them at twelve thousand."

"You'll give that for them, Amos?" Grant asked.

The man writhed a little in his chair.

"Eleven thousand, Major," he begged. "There's going to be a glut of jewellery on the market and I've had to pay for the knocking them out of their settings."

"Agreed," Grant decided. "The amount will go to Mrs. Mat Sarson, Number 17 Pollard's Road, Newmarket. The money will reach her next week. Is that agreed?"

Amos Grimmett sighed.

"I ought to have made it ten thousand," he said. "Still—little Mat was a good sort. The money' shall go."

"Next," Grant enjoined.

Amos Grimmett drew out another packet. He undid the string, took off the lid from a box, and passed the contents round—the two rubies and the diamond from Kensington Museum.

"The most marvellous rubies in the world," Passiter declared, handling them fondly. "These three stones were insured by the British Government for thirty thousand pounds."

"Having regard to the magnitude of these sums," Amos Grimmett declared, "I have been obliged to seek the assistance of some of my friends and form a small syndicate. We will give twenty-five thousand for them."

"H'm!" Grant remarked. "Well, that's the first entry for the competition. What do you say about twenty-five thousand pounds, Passiter?"

Passiter's lips opened in what could only be described as a snarl.

"The money might do," he muttered, "but who gets it?"

There was an ominous silence. Amos Grimmett thrust his hand into the huge silver bowl and drew out a brown-paper package.

"In this," he explained, "Doctor Bradman's contribution, I am not—"

"Wait!" Grant's voice rang out like a muffled pistol shot. He rose to his feet, his forefinger lifted.

"What the devil's wrong?" Passiter demanded.

"You fellows have no sensibility," Grant declared. "Can't you hear footsteps in the street? I heard voices just now too."

He stole over to the curtains and peered down. Bradman and Chaplain Lane followed his example.

"There are two or three fellows hanging about at the street corner," the latter pointed out. "I never noticed that before."

"I heard the footsteps of more than two or three people," Grant said uneasily. "There's no one out, is there? We're all here."

Bradman drew back from the curtains.

"If it were anyone but you, Chief," he rejoined, "I should imagine you'd been drinking. The alley seems to me to be much as usual."

Grant crossed the room and stepped into the little recess, purposely built so that the room commanded a view of the restaurant.

"Look here, Doctor," he said, beckoning insistently to Bradman, "there are fifty or sixty men down in the restaurant. Just look at them, one by one, from table to table. What do you make of them?"

"A very ordinary lot," Bradman declared. "I'm afraid the restaurant's going down."

Grant gnawed his short moustache.

"I'll tell you what I make of them," he muttered. "To me they have the stamp of it. I believe at least half of them are plain-clothes men from the Yard."

Bradman looked at his companion curiously.

"Major," he suggested, "you'd better let me give you something for your nerves. We've had the greatest two months of our lives, and with the end of it naturally comes the breakdown. Why, I can tell you the names of at least a dozen of those men. That's Robert Dunn, the bookmaker—his son-in-law, a wholesale fish merchant at the same table. There's Luke Hadley, the man who bought those three cinemas last week. Scotland Yard men indeed! You're crazy."

Grant swung round on his heel.

"I suppose you're right," he admitted. "Come on back."

They returned to the table.

"Go ahead, Amos," Grant invited, helping himself to a drink.

"The brown-paper parcel," Grimmett announced, "is the contribution of Doctor Bradman. My only task in connection with it has been to reduce the various forms of currency to English pounds. It is a very wonderful haul indeed—very wonderful—but I understand that a lady who has become Doctor Bradman's wife claims a certain share in it."

"Not only that, but she's got to have it," the doctor observed. "There's sixty thousand there, but only thirty thousand available."

"That will do for the present then," Grant said. "We are going to discuss the matter of allocation presently."

Grimmett drew out another brown-paper packet.

"Thousand-dollar notes," he announced. "Mr. Chaplain Lane's contribution, duly counted out and on to-day's rate of exchange, worth seventy-two thousand pounds. Something has to be deducted here, however, for the original capital sunk and for the lady who assisted our friend."

"A marvellous recovery, that!" Grant murmured. "We owe something, always, to our friends who bring in the cash. Put it down, Grimmett."

In went Amos Grimmett's hand once more, and with jealous fingers he held out a great string of diamonds and again a more wonderful one of rubies.

"The jewels of Mirada," he exclaimed huskily. "The world's epic theft, gentlemen, the most dramatic episode of modern times. My friends who were helping me, Major, have stretched a point for these jewels. We value them at, and we shall give for them, eighty thousand pounds."

"Listen," Grant exclaimed suddenly.

They all turned their heads. The music was playing below. The distant hum of voices rose from the restaurant, together with the pattering of feet from the dancers.

"Listen to what?" Chaplain Lane demanded, for him almost irritably.

Eustace Grant rose from his place, walked to the door, unlocked it and looked out. He lingered there for a time. Then he came back.

"Sorry," he apologised. "Bradman's right, I suppose—I want a nerve tonic or else my ears have gone wrong. Get on with it, Grimmett. The sooner we've finished the valuations, the better."

Grimmett's hand once more sought the bowl.

"One moment," Grant interrupted. "Our friend John Frisby's contribution cannot be shown, but, dangerous though it is to hold, it represents a wonderful enterprise. A firm of Chinese merchants in the City paid into the banking account of the club this afternoon sixty thousand pounds, the result of the sale of a consignment of cocaine, heroin, and a drug which we do not mention by name. Enter that amount on the list, if you please, Mr. Grimmett, as the contribution of our friend, John Frisby."

Then Amos Grimmett thrust out his hand toward Nick and there was a little murmur as the chain of jewels was placed in it. Amos Grimmett himself was like a man moved to a state of ecstasy. His eyes devoured the diamond.

"My friends," he announced, "however much we may regret it, this ends the competition. My syndicate will give a hundred thousand pounds for 'The Light of China,' and we shall make a better profit on it than on any of these other things. One hundred thousand pounds to Nick of New York."

There was a strange little murmur of voices. It certainly was not applause they indicated. It was more like a threat. Nick seemed to feel them edging towards him.

"Listen, gentlemen," he said, "the competition into which we all entered was my idea. We were all overapt to talk about our own exploits. In fact, as criminals," he went on, "we're in a queer position, for whilst our business is to hide in the secret corners of the world, our instinct is rather to live in the crowded places and boast of our success. I offer you atonement for an ill-considered scheme. I propose that each man should keep what belongs to him, as long as he may, or send it into the common fund and divide, whichever has been your custom."

There was a stupefied silence. Eustace Grant drew a deep sigh.

"Our friend from the other side of the seas," he observed, "has anticipated a suggestion on our part. As things are, we still have to remember, with deep regret and humility, that our friend Nick of New York has carried out the greatest enterprise of any. However, let us not go back upon our motto—crooks pay. We accept Nick of New York's offer. Nick of New York, we drink your health."

They all stood up. Suddenly a familiar, and yet a curiously altered voice, rang through the room. A dozen paces away, though they had seen him disappear down the stairs, and though every door apparently was locked, stood George, and, more amazing than anything else in the world, he held in his hands, with an air of great familiarity, a pair of flat automatics.

"Well," he said, "you want to drink my health, I'm here."

"What the hell's the matter with you, George?" Grant exclaimed. "Put those guns down, you fool." George grinned—a familiar and yet an altered grin.

"I'd be a bigger fool if I did," he rejoined. "You ask who I am and I'll tell you. I'm Nick of New York."

Passiter slouched across the table, sweeping two glasses onto the floor. Hungry John dropped on his knees. Amos Grimmett shook with fear. The doctor rose from his place, and as he rose, George's left-hand gun followed his movements. Chaplain Lane found voice.

"What the hell do you mean by saying you're Nick of New York?" he demanded.

"Because it's the honest-to-God truth," was the harsh reply. "I came over here meaning to leg in with you. Since I found out what was going on, I've lain low. I've let you work for me. Your guns have gone into the dust-bin, and if I kill the lot of you, I don't mind. I want the loot and I'm going to have it, but I'll tell you this before I've done with you. Call yourselves gangsters. Call yourselves classic criminals. You're nothing but a pack of shallow-headed mugs, children, suckers. Nick of New York indeed! Look at your Nick of New York and ask him who he is."

"I think," Nick said pleasantly, "that our friend George must have been drinking." Grant sprang to his feet.

"My God, man," he cried, "I've never been sure of you. Who are you?"

"Who is he?" George from the background mocked. "About time you asked. I'll tell you in five minutes. Clear off now, the lot of you. Stand with your backs to that wall—my God, if you don't I'll pick you off, one by one. Are you getting up, Passiter? I always hated you, you scowling brute. Get flat to the wall or you'll have one of those through your middle instead of your arm."

A spit of flame, a snapping report, and Passiter's arm fell helpless by his side. He leaped to the wall. Amos Grimmett was already there, his hands high above his head. The others followed. Only the pseudo Nick of New York remained at the table, watching his companion stuff his pockets with the jewels, lining himself everywhere with the thousand-dollar bills.

"A very good hold-up, George," he approved, with a smile. "I wonder how far you think you're going to get away with that lot?"

"You hold your tongue," was the snarling response, "or you'll go to the wall with the others. I've bullets enough to send every one of you to hell. Try it!" he almost shouted, as he watched Grant quivering on his toes. "Try a rush, my soldier hero! There isn't a man of you could reach this table and you know it. I've got what I want. I've taken what Nick of New York wants away from you set of braggarts. Stay where you are till I get to the door, and I'll tell you who your pal is."

The new George, with swift, slinking footsteps, went backwards to the wall. He turned the key. His fingers rested upon the handle.

"Come after me, if you want to, all of you," he jeered. "I plan these things better than you. I am just a waiter and I'm going where I choose. There isn't one of you who's going to leave here except in the Black Maria. How I've laughed at you night after night, when you've planned your schemes. Nick of New York indeed! He's Dickins, the detective, the man who pretended to resign from Scotland Yard."

He plunged through the door and they heard him laugh as he passed down the stairs. Grant came forward from his place. The others followed him. They had forgotten their fear. They were like a pack of wolves as they came hack to the table. Grant took a seat by Dickins' side.

"We don't need a gun to kill you, Dickins," he said. "A gun would be too merciful. Have you ever heard of a man being broken into pieces, smashed into a jelly, slowly torn limb from limb. It's what's going to happen to you."

"I'm not so sure," Dickins answered.

His foot stole slowly backwards. The room was in sudden darkness, every light extinguished. There was an explosion at the farther end as though a bomb had fallen. Everyone was for a moment paralysed. Then the lights flashed on again and they stood aghast, looking at Dickins' vacant chair.

"Where the hell is he?" Grant cried.

They ran round the room like wildcats. There was no sign of Dickins.

"He never reached the door, I'll swear that," Passiter shrieked. "I've stood with my back to it every moment."

"Behind the counter," Grant ordered.

Chaplain Lane was there first. He leaned over and gasped.

"There's no one here," he shouted, "but, my God, there's a hole in the floor!"

They all rushed to his side. Suddenly, with a yell of horror, Chaplain Lane fell backwards, shrieking, and clutching at the empty air with his hands. Grant, who was close behind, made a valiant spring, cleared the counter even, sobbing and choking, and struck at the terrible object that had risen slowly from the circular black hole, only to fall crashing amongst the glasses and lie there unconscious. Then, before their terrified eyes, the hideous apparition rose to its full height—a human being, clad in fireman's helmet and gas mask, and what seemed to be some sort of armour from head to foot, with sieve-like projections for the eyes. From the instrument which he held in his hands came pouring oily grey smoke. Both Frisby and Amos Grimmett staggered for the window, but reeled and fell prostrate before they could cross the room. In less than thirty seconds, there was complete silence in the room. From below, in the streets and on the stairs, came the blowing of whistles. The little company of plain-clothes policemen, wearing gas masks until the windows were open, who presently entered the room, had nothing to do but place their prisoners on stretchers and carry them to the waiting van.


Dickins, perhaps for the first time in his life, was nervous as he crossed the floor of Martha Dring's studio a few afternoons later. He knew very well, however, what was in store for him when she shook her head at his outstretched hand.

"I'm sorry," she said.

"So am I," he answered.

"You are a brave man," she continued, "and I know that you only did your duty. My brain tells me that I ought to join in with all the others, pat you on the back as a hero, and be thankful that you have rid the country of a terrible band of gangsters, but I can't do it."

"In war," he pleaded, "the secret-service man, the spy, ranks high enough. Surely criminals, the enemies of our own people, murderers, killing for lust of gain, are at any rate as bad as a foreign enemy? The country couldn't honourably exist if gangs like Grant's and men like Nick of New York were not rooted out. We tried our best to do it by ordinary methods, and we found out, what is after all the truth, that the odds are in favour of the intelligent criminal as against the ordinary science of detection. One had to go into their own country, to meet them at their own game. And the end—don't you think I'd sooner have had a fair fight? But supposing I had, what would it have meant? The death of twenty or thirty of my men, at least. There wasn't one of that gang would have surrendered without emptying his guns into the body of some poor policeman who was only doing his duty. Gas has been used before against criminals, and I claim that it was used mercifully. We took every member of the gang without a wound on either side."

She sighed.

"I suppose you are right," she said. "I only know how I feel. Since you arc here, though, I must ask you one question. What happened to Angus Flood?"

"We arrested Flood secretly a fortnight before," he confided. "We had a band of workmen employed soon after the club closed every night until eight o'clock in the morning, altering the passages and exits, and making the spiral staircase up for our gas man. . . . Oh, I know what you are thinking about it all," he went on, with a queer little burst of passion, "but can't you realise what my position was? For two months I had suspected Grant of being at the head of a band of gangsters and Flood's Club as being their headquarters. I tried by every possible means to get a line on them and failed. Brain for brain, they were too clever for me. The day I walked into Flood's Club and announced myself as Nick of New York, I made my will and left the world behind me. I never expected to come out alive. There wasn't a single moment when I wasn't in danger of my life. You must know that. You may say that I could have arrested them before some of the last adventures. So I could, but I should never have got the lot, and if one by one the men had disappeared, the others would have taken fright and cleared out. I took risks. You may say that we paid a high price when you think of some of those poor people who lost their lives, but we went for a great coup and we brought it off. Grant's gang of civilised criminals has disappeared. Nick of New York is in prison. Costigan's Hornets are wiped out."

"My dear man," she said, resting her hand upon his shoulder, "I think you are one of the most brilliant and bravest detectives I ever knew in my life, but—"

"Well?"

"But some ghastly freak of nature put me on the wrong side."

He walked with her in silence to the door. At the last moment she paused.

"If it would really make you happier," she promised, "I would shake hands with you on one condition."

"It would make me very much happier," he assured her.

"Tell me how you took the Duchess' diamond?" He smiled.

"The Duchess, as you must know," he reminded her, "was the daughter of the Chief Commissioner. She lent it to me."

She held out her hand.

"I wish that I could give you all that you deserve, dear Nick of New York," she sighed.</story>