<story title="THE TABERNACLE OF JUDGMENT" date="1929">
THE man and the woman, each carrying suitcases, almost the first of the passengers to descend from the hissing monster of the train behind, pushed their way through the crowd towards the long line of waiting vehicles. The man's coat collar was turned up and his soft Homburg hat pulled down. The woman was wrapped from head to foot in a long fur coat, the deep collar of which completely encircled her head. Adequate lighting has never been a hobby of the Great Eastern Railway Company, and it seemed impossible that they should have been recognised by either friend or enemy as they crossed the narrow stretch of platform at Fenchurch Street Station between the train and the main exit. The unexpected happened, however. The dressing cases were safely deposited in the taxicab, the woman had already entered, when the man felt a heavy grip upon his shoulder and heard a booming voice in his ear.

"Almost missed you, Freddy, my boy! Welcome back to the old country! Train a bit late, eh?"

The man eyed his interlocutor in blank amazement, into which there crept swiftly a darkening blend of fear. He was absolutely, for the moment, incapable of speech. Chaplain Lane, bland, suave, and rubicund, patted him on the shoulder.

"Gave you a start, old chap, didn't I?" he continued cheerily. "I forgot you wouldn't be expecting me. Get in and I'll come a little way with you."

The newly arrived traveller dumbly obeyed. The chauffeur, leaning around from his seat, called through the window:

"Where to, sir?"

"The Terminus Hotel, London Bridge," the former ordered.

Chaplain Lane laughed loudly.

"No, you don't!" he exclaimed. "Any one who works for us, and brings it off like you have, stays at no Terminus Hotel. We have rooms for you at the Milan. The Milan Hotel, chauffeur," he added in a louder tone. "Of course we didn't know about the lady," he went on, removing his hat roguishly, "but that can be arranged. Freddy, my boy, find your tongue. Introduce me."

The man made an effort to pull himself together. He was not much to look at—a hard, sullen face, with the complexion of an indoor dweller and a none too pleasant type of expression.

"This is my wife," he said shortly. "I was married in New York the day before we sailed."

"Married, you dog!" the other repeated. "You might have sent us a cable. My congratulations to you both. We'll crack a bottle over it presently. Madam, I'm delighted to meet you. Put your little hand in mine and remember that in Chaplain Lane you've met one of your husband's best friends. Fine fellow, Freddy! There are one or two of us pretty well pleased with him just now, I can tell you."

The woman glanced across at him with a queer smile. She had rather fine eyes, although a trifle over-bold, and hair which left one only a guess at its natural colour, but pronounced itself temporarily auburn.

"Pleased to meet you, Mr. Lane," she murmured.

"Married, eh!" the latter remarked once more, sitting a little forward in his uncomfortable place, with a hand on each knee. "Well, now I've seen your wife, I don't blame you. American, madam?"

"I'm Scotch really," the lady admitted. "I've lived most of my life in America, though."

"Look here, Chaplain," her husband intervened, "I don't think much of this staying at the Milan. We'd much sooner go to a quiet place. Besides, you know, after all," he went on, looking intently at the other, "it hasn't panned out nearly as well as we hoped. Peventon Bay, where we first tried to land, was a rotten business. We gave the man we thought was the boss a thousand dollars, and as soon as we had four lorries laden, a police squad came up and pinched the lot. The only landing where we were really successful was fifty miles up the coast in New Jersey, and that was no child's play, I can tell you."

"That's all right, Freddy," Chaplain Lane assured him soothingly. "You've got back safe. That's the great thing. It wasn't the stuff I came down to enquire after. We sha'n't quarrel about that. You did your best, I know. The Major's aching to hear about it. He's just the sort that would like to take the job on himself. What about coming up and having a bite at the club with us to-night—you and madam, of course?"

"We're tired," was the somewhat ungracious reply. "We had rather a bad crossing. Besides, we haven't any clothes."

"I have an evening dress and you have your dinner clothes there, Freddy," the lady volunteered. "I tell you, I'm dying to taste some good English food again after that muck we've been having on the steamer."

"And you shall, madam," her prospective host declared vigorously. "I'll order your dinner myself. We won't keep you late, Freddy."

The latter muttered something, but was obviously ill at ease. Suddenly he burst out with a question. The woman by his side was gazing through the rain-splashed windows at the broadening streets.

"I say, Chaplain, how the devil did you know I was coming this way home? The only word I sent you was that I was sailing on the Olympic."

"I know, old chap," Lane murmured, "but you know the Major as well as I do. It isn't that he doesn't trust anybody, but he likes to have a double report when a job's on."

"So I've been shadowed, have I?" the man growled.

"Not you, my lad," the other assured him. "We just found out from the White Star Office that you weren't on the Olympic, so we wirelessed the other two steamers that started about the same time."

"Pity you couldn't have left me alone. I had trouble enough getting off as it was, what with the Federal people and the police."

"Well that doesn't matter, now that you're here," Lane declared cheerfully. "We've got you a nice tittle suite at the Milan for a week, a home-coming present from the boss. To-night, after dinner, we'll just hear how the thing's cleaned up, and then—well, if I had a wife like yours," he added, with a gallant gesture towards the lady, "I should take a week's holiday and show her the sights of London—shops, theatres, and that sort of thing. Eh, Mrs. Bramfield?"

"That's what I'm looking forward to," the latter assented. "I can't make out what's the matter with Freddy the last few days," she went on. "He—"

"Thing didn't clear up as well as I'd hoped," her husband interrupted irritably. "I'm afraid the Major will be disappointed, Chaplain, and that's the truth."

"Well, you know him," the latter replied. "He's not one to cry over spilt milk. Besides, I don't suppose it's as bad as all that, when you come to look into it. Here we are—Milan! I'll just take you along and register, and we'll have one little glass together to welcome Freddy home and wish you both happiness."

The programme was duly carried out. They found a corner in the lounge, and the woman, in her dark scarlet travelling gown, and with the aid of the minor improvements effected by the use of a vanity case, displayed unexpected attractions. The man still seemed tired and worried. The bottle was half empty when he rose to his feet and strolled over towards the cigar stand. Chaplain Lane leaned a little farther back in his chair and gazed up towards the ceiling. He addressed the woman without looking at her.

"Did he bring the stuff along?"

"He surely did," she answered.

"This steamer," he went on—"the Terminus Hotel—is it a double cross?"

"I guess so," she admitted. "I got to see you, Chaplain, quick."

"I'll work it to-night," he promised. "Look out! He's a sly dog, Freddy. He's watching us."

"That yarn of yours about the wireless didn't go very well."

"How's that?" Chaplain asked, busying himself with a cigarette case.

"The wireless on our little boat's been out of order since we started," she confided.


Chaplain Lane smiled his way into the upstairs bar at Flood's Club that evening at about a quarter past eight. He was arrayed in unusual splendour, a long coat, white tie and waistcoat, and a white carnation in his buttonhole. He ordered a double Martini before he was halfway across the floor. Nick Conklin, who was seated at the counter, turned round to greet him.

"Why all this gorgeousness, Chaplain?" he demanded.

Lane looked round the room.

"I'm going out," he confided.

"The devil!" Conklin murmured. "You must have an odd sort of job on to tog yourself out like this. Want any help?"

The other shook his head.

"I don't think so," he answered. "It's a queer sort of affair, anyway. I'll tell you one thing about it, Nick, though. It may put me up top in your competition."

Nick of New York smiled.

"It makes me feel good to hear a man talk like that! Charlie, I'll buy Chaplain another drink and I'll have one myself. Ah," he added, slipping off his stool as Martha Dring entered, "here comes Miss Dring. Perhaps she will join us."

"Why this unusual magnificence?" she enquired, glancing at Chaplain.

"I am entertaining friends," he announced. "Afterwards I am going out."

"You've really screwed your courage up to that!" she laughed. "You aren't dining with us, then, I suppose?"

"Indeed I am," was the prompt reply. "The lady and gentleman I am expecting are being entertained expressly by the Major at our table. The man was once a junior member of our society. We still have connections."

"Since we are to meet him," Nick Conklin remarked, "might one enquire as to his name and his particular line of country?"

"His name is Bramfield—Freddy Bramfield," the other confided. "He is a bootlegger's transport agent, if you know what that is. Sort of supercargo who takes the stuff out and then has to plan to get it into the hands of the bootleggers proper."

"What a fascinating occupation!" Martha exclaimed.

"It has its points," Lane agreed cheerfully. "Bramfield's predecessor had a bullet through his head on the third trip, which put him out of business, and from the little I've seen of him I should May Freddy's pretty well scared. Here they are!"

He hurried forward with outstretched hands and beaming countenance. Bramfield was very little improved by his rest and change into dinner clothes. His wife, on the contrary, was a transformed woman. A new complexion had arrived. The tinge of her hair contrasted disturbingly with the hazel of her eyes. She was no longer furtive or showed any desire for concealment. From certain points of view, she was a very beautiful woman. Their host ushered them to the bar.

"You all ought to know Freddy Bramfield," he declared, waving his hand towards Passiter and Bradman, who had just entered. "He belongs to the one adventurous profession left in the world. His is a holy mission too. He devotes his life to philanthropic enterprises."

"In plain words, I suppose," Eustace Grant remarked, as he sauntered up to join the group, "to saving a great nation from dying of thirst. How do we come out this time, Freddy?"

"Not so well," Bramfield confessed gloomily.

Grant indulged in a little grimace.

"Never mind," he said. "I'm sure yon did your best. We'll talk business after dinner. Present me, if you please, to your beautiful wife."

The introduction was duly effected, but a close observer, such as Nick of New York, might have wondered whether, after all, it was entirely necessary. Afterwards they all went down to dinner.

Neither Cliquot '19, nor the old brandy which followed, seemed able to lessen materially the gloom which darkened the expression of the returned bootlegger. He was like a man sitting in the company of evil thoughts or held in the thrall of some fear. Everyone in turn made an effort to induce him to join in the conversation, but in turn every one desisted. He remained alone, a death's-head at the feast, a dull flush of colour in his cheeks from the wine he had drunk, but his eyes still lustreless. Almost the only person he addressed directly was Conklin.

"Are you any relation to the fellow they call 'Nick of New York'?" he enquired.

"That is what they call me over on the other side," was the gracious admission.

Bramfield moved uneasily in his place.

"What made you come over here?" he demanded. "Are you hitched up with this gang?"

"In a way, I suppose I am, I can't call myself a full partner, I am sorry to say. I have no share, for instance, in your little expedition."

"It wouldn't do you much good if you had," Bramfield muttered.

Grant leaned forward.

"Don't depress us so, Bramfield," he begged. "We were rather hoping great things from you."

"Well, you had better prepare to be disappointed then. The game's pretty well up over there. It's ruined by graft, that's what it is. What with the Federal men, and the police, and the profit that the bootleggers expect to make themselves, there's nothing left. My last trip. I'm through!"

"Well, we'll talk about that," Grant suggested good-humouredly. "We may be able to fix you up a little differently next time. Would you like to have our business talk to-night?"

"Let's get it over," Bramfield grunted. "I've got a packet for you in my suitcase outside, and the sooner I get rid of it the better I shall be pleased."

Grunt rose and laid his hand upon the other's shoulder.

"Carry on, you people," he invited, "or amuse yourselves in any way you please. I can see that Freddy isn't going to be a bit of good until he's had a clean-up."

The two men left the room together. Nick looked after them thoughtfully. George, the waiter, who had fallen back into a dark corner, watched them with a scowl. As soon as her husband was out of sight, the woman, obeying a glance from Lane, rose to her feet and preceded him from the room.

Upstairs, in one of the mysterious private rooms, Grant moved the green-shaded lamp, under which he had been counting stacks of dollar notes, a little further away. He leaned hack in his chair.

"Thirty thousand dollars," he meditated. "It isn't very much, Freddy. It's barely what we paid for the stuff."

"Can't be helped," was the dogged reply. "I tell you, Grant, the job isn't worth taking on nowadays. They've gone crazy over there. Every other bootlegger's a gunman, and the Federal crowd are frankly out to kill. They got me lying down once, I'll admit. They took a cool hundred thousand off me at the Vornay Hotel in Sixth Avenue. It's highway robbery, that's what it is, but what can you do? It's no good talking about the law when you're selling the stuff, and you're full of lead in two minutes if you handle a gun with them."

"I see," Grant mused. "Six thousand pounds. It isn't much."

"What about me?" the other man grumbled. "I was meaning to finish this trip. Seems to me as though I shall have to take up some other line of business."

"Shouldn't be surprised," Grant remarked. "I daresay you'll find married life a little expensive. Your wife knows how to make the dollars fly."

Suspicion for the first time flared in Bramfield's eyes. He leaned forward in his chair. There were two veins at the side of his forehead which became suddenly taut.

"What do you know about my wife?" he demanded.

Grant laughed softly,

"Oh, I know something about her," he observed, "I knew her before yon did, I think, Freddy. She's been doing odd work for us for a good many years. I even know where she is at the present moment."

"What do you mean? She's downstairs," Bramfield exclaimed, rising to his feat.

"Oh, no, she isn't. They've finished downstairs. The party's broken up,"

"She's in the bar then. I told her to wait there."

"Oh, no, she isn't," Grant insisted, "If you want to speak to her you can. Try 4308 Western, Apartment 128."

"That's my number!"

Grant's right hand stole into his pocket.

"That's your number, you swine!" he said fiercely. "Your wife's there now, with Lane. They're going through the other suitcase. What a damned fool you must he to think you could double-cross us."

The man was speechless. His jaw seemed to have fallen loose. He sat and stared and all the time he shook.

"You've lost your nerve, all right," Grant continued contemptuously. "You know what's going to happen to you, I suppose?"

Still Bramfield remained speechless. Though he knew that it was his death sentence coming, he still lacked all power of resistance. Grant clapped his hands. From what seemed to be a cupboard, but which disclosed itself now as the top of a staircase, two or three slim, dark forms stepped into the room. Grant pointed to his victim.

"Tie him up," he ordered. "I haven't quite finished with him yet."

The first note of the man's cry of agony was stopped by the gag they thrust into his mouth. Grant watched them at their task. Then he asked for a number on the telephone.

"Milan Hotel?... Give me Mr. Bramfield's suite, please. He arrived tins evening.... Hullo!... That you, Babette? Nearly finished?... Good! Well, tell Lane to bring the stuff along. Your husband's fretting about you.... Right! Ask Charles, in the bar, to look after you when you arrive. We are in what I call my 'Tabernacle of Judgment.'"

The man in the chair was on the point of collapse. Nerves and body were alike giving way under the strain of those accumulating horrors. Babette, his enchantress of a month, from whom he had kept no secrets, the friend of his enemies, even now alone with Chaplain Lane in his rooms! A sick and morbid jealousy was added to his other afflictions. He writhed uselessly in his chair. Grant, who had apparently forgotten him, was calmly writing a letter.

A numbness of the brain, perhaps a species of unconsciousness, relieved the strain on Bramfield. His body was limp. He had tried the strength of his bonds and he knew very well that escape was impossible. What a fool! What a blind fool! The three hundred and sixty thousand dollars and Babette had seemed so alluring, and now instead—probably the river! He began to shiver. The thought of the black, icy water suddenly appalled him. He was back again, mercifully half conscious. The only sound in the room was the scratching of Grant's pen as he continued to write.


They came in laughing, Chaplain Lane carrying the suitcase, Babette's arm resting in friendly fashion upon his coat sleeve. Grant swung round in his chair to welcome them. The half-unconscious man opened his eyes and Babette shivered as she met their terrified glare.

"How much?" Grant asked.

Chaplain Lane's smile was seraphic.

"Three hundred and sixty thousand dollars," he announced. "All in thousand-dollar bills. I believe," he went on, "Bramfield was right so far. No one would introduce him to a bank or give an order on London. It's a queer business—a bootlegger's in New York. Thousand-dollar bills are bulky, but they're good handling."

Grant opened the suitcase and passed his fingers over the sheaves of stiff, perfectly new notes.

"Ten thousand for you, Babette," he decided, passing them to her, packet by packet. "The remainder you can put in against Nick's competition, Chaplain, subject to a reversion of a hundred thousand dollars to the funds. Satisfied?"

They both knew their man too well to hesitate.

"That goes with me," Chaplain Lane assented cheerfully.

"And with me," Babette agreed, "but I think if anything happens to Freddy, Chaplain ought to marry me. After all, it was I who brought Freddy along. What are you going to do with him, anyway?" she demanded, throwing herself into an easy-chair and displaying freely her long, shapely legs.

Eustace Grant swung round in his chair and looked thoughtfully across at his victim.

"I am afraid Freddy will have to take a ride," he replied. "A man who would double-cross us as he has done could never be trusted."

With either foot or hand Grant must have touched a bell, for two of his previous visitors suddenly appeared. Even Babette trembled a little at the sight of them.

"Go over him once more for a gun," Eustace Grant ordered. "If you're absolutely certain about it, untie him."

They went over him with practised hands. Then, as rapidly as they had bound him up, they pulled out one long stretch of thong and the man sat free. He swallowed half a dozen times before he could speak, tried to rise to his feet, but sank back in the chair.

"Oh, my God!" he groaned.

Eustace Grant studied him curiously.

"What made you try to double-cross us, Bramfield?" he asked. "You know very well what's happened to the others."

"Mad, I suppose," the man stammered. "It didn't seem to me you could ever know. Buddy Brown, who paid me the money, was shot by a Federal man the next day. If I hadn't told Babette, you would never have known. There wasn't a soul alive to tell. Just Babette! I trusted Babette!"

Grant shook his head gravely. "There's always a string left loose, Bramfield," lie said. "You'll have to go."

The man tried to call out, but the sound which escaped his lips was little more than a quaver of agony. He turned piteously to Babette.

"You've got every penny of the money between you," he faltered. "Speak to him, Babette. Tell him to let me go. I won't squeal. I've got enough to live on from the last job until something else comes along."

Babette said nothing. The silence seemed to have in it all the elements of primitive and savage cruelty. Chaplain Lane said nothing. Eustace Grant nodded almost imperceptibly to the shorter of the two men. There was a little gurgling cry. The cupboard door opened and closed. Eustace Grant finished the direction on the envelope of the letter which he had been writing and rose to his feet.

"Time we paid Charlie a visit, people," he suggested.</story>