<story title="A Book Upside Down" date="1927">
DETECTIVE BENSKIN glanced around the small second-hand bookshop with the keen, practised eyes of a man who has schooled himself to search for hidden values even in the most trifling phases of life. After a year of tedious routine work, this was the first big assignment which had come his way, and this had come to him by chance. Burton, his senior, had had the case in hand until he had been stricken down by 'flu, and Burton, upon handing it over, frankly admitted that he could make little of it.

"This much I can tell you, Benskin," he had confided, after explaining the simple facts of the case, "there isn't a hope outside. I've done that part of the job thoroughly. If there's anything remaining in the shape of a clue to be picked up, it's in the bookshop itself."

So Burton had betaken himself home and to bed, and Benskin, after collecting all the information he could, made his way down to the bookshop. The young lady whom, through the medium of a diminutive errand boy, he summoned from the inside premises, in due course made her appearance. She was dark, good-looking, but somewhat sullen of expression. She frowned questioningly at the newcomer.

"My name is Benskin," he announced, raising his hat—"Detective Benskin."

"What, another of you!" she exclaimed. "There's been a Mr. Burton messing about the place for more than a week, asking all sorts of questions."

"Mr. Burton, I am sorry to say, is down with influenza," Benskin told her. "I have had to take over his work."

She looked at him with somewhat supercilious curiosity.

"Well, he didn't seem to do much good," she remarked. "Took up hours of everybody's time and never got a step forwarder."

"These things can't be rushed," Benskin ventured. "As a rule, we don't like to say much about a case until we have, at any rate, a definite theory. I expect he would have stumbled across a clue of some sort but for his illness. I hope I may be more fortunate."

"I should hope you will," the girl said emphatically. "It seems a rum thing to me that a harmless old gentleman like Uncle Sam should have been done to death here, not fifty yards from Holborn, and you Scotland Yard men who think so much of yourselves haven't been able to do anything about it."

"The case is not given up yet," Benskin reminded her. "You should appreciate the fact that there are special difficulties to contend with. Although, as you say, you are so close to Holborn, this street itself is a very quiet one, and, according to Burton's report, although everyone in the neighbourhood has been questioned and cross-questioned, not a soul was seen to enter or leave the shop within even half an hour of the time of the murder. That doesn't give us much to start on, does it?"

"I suppose not," she admitted indifferently.

"Do you mind showing me exactly where your uncle's body was found?" he asked.

She lifted a flap of the counter and came reluctantly out to him. The shop was lined with bookshelves, with two wings projecting at right angles into the room at the further end. She pointed to the space in front of one of these.

"That is exactly where he was found," she said. "He was lying flat upon his face with his skull beaten in. I hope I don't have to tell any more of you about it. It gives me the shivers every time I look at the place."

"I am sure you won't be troubled again," he told her sympathetically. "If I have to pass the case on to some one else, I shall be able to tell him all that is necessary. I have a little plan of the way your uncle was lying. The suggestion seems to be that he was struck down from the left-hand side. It must have been from somewhere about here."

He placed himself between the two shelves and nodded thoughtfully. The girl stood by his side, patient but gloomy.

"It is true, is it not," he asked, "that your uncle must have been called into the shop whilst he was putting the shutters up—that they were half up, in fact, when he was found, murdered?"

"I've told Mr. Burton all this," she nodded, discontentedly.

"Please be patient with me," Benskin begged. "I like to hear these thing sometimes at first hand. This is how I see the matter then: your uncle was putting up the shutters when some one entered the shop—perhaps without his seeing them at the time—and strolled around the shelves, looking at the books. Your uncle suddenly became aware that a probable customer was there—he may have attracted his attention by some means—and left the shutters to go and serve him. He came this way, and as soon as he had passed the corner of the wing of the bookcase which hid the murderer from sight, he received the blow that killed him."

"That's all right," the girl agreed, "but who did it?"

"The person must have been standing," Benskin went on, without taking any notice of the interruption, "just about where I am now. Presuming he knew what he was going to do, he would probably have been looking at some of these books to account for his presence here. Let's see if any of them have been disturbed."

He examined the shelves within arm's length of him. Suddenly he stretched out his hand.

"Here's one put in upside down—looks as though it had been returned to its place in a hurry too—no dust on it, evidently been looked at lately. The History of the Rosicrucians," he went on, reading out the title. "That's a valuable book, isn't it, Miss Mason?"

"I know nothing about the prices," she replied, "I expect you'll find it on the flyleaf."

He glanced at the title page and nodded.

"Forty shillings," he murmured. "That's quite a lot of money! Still, it's a unique book. Had you noticed, Miss Mason, that the volume was in upside down?"

"I haven't been near the shelves, I've had other things to think about," was the curt rejoinder,

"You haven't shown the book, then, to any one who's been in since?"

"I haven't been near this end of the shop at all."

Benskin handled the volume gingerly.

"It's interesting in a way, you know," he observed, "because it was probably taken down by the murderer. You won't mind if I keep it for a time, Miss Mason? I don't think it's much use looking for finger-prints, but you never can tell."

"You can have it if you want to," she answered. "If it's worth two pounds, though, I hope you'll bring it hack again."

"Of course I will," he promised,

He asked a few more questions and presently prepared to take his leave. The girl smiled at him sardonically.

"Well?" she asked. "Any theory?"

He shook his head.

"I can't even go so far as that, for the moment." he admitted. "By the by, can you tell me whether the whole contents of the till were taken?"

"Every penny."

"Not a treasury note left, for instance?"

"Not one. We had to send to the bank to get money enough to keep the house going. There were over seventy pounds in treasury notes and cash. Uncle used to go to sales and always had to have money handy."

Benskin shut up his pocketbook and sighed.

"The facts so far," he acknowledged, "arc not very helpful. Still, we must do what we can."

"Oh, you'll hang some one, all right, no doubt." the girl remarked sourly. "Be careful it's the right one, though—that's all!"


BENSKIN admitted to himself, as he mounted the steps of the Free Library in the next street, that if the single clue he had unearthed failed him, it was extremely unlikely that anyone would ever hang for the Dunster Street murder. He looked about the place curiously, as he crossed the tesselated stone floor. There was a sprinkling of men, old and young, seated poring over books in the railed-off reading department, a dozen or so more at the counter, and a space reserved for ladies, well patronised by a respectable-looking crowd of young women. Benskin enquired for the librarian, introduced himself, and drew him to one side.

"I've come to ask you a question, if I may, Mr. Broadbent," he said, "with reference to this Dunster Street murder."

The librarian was startled.

"A beastly affair," he remarked. "I knew the old man well. He used to come in here often for reference books and to compare editions. I don't quite see what help I can be to you, though."

"It isn't exactly obvious," Benskin confessed, "but if you can answer me a question, it might turn out to be of some assistance. Can you recall any subscriber to the library particularly interested in works on alchemy and magic?"

"We could only tell, of course, by the books they ask for," the librarian answered, "and I'm afraid it would take the best part of a day to go through the records. One of our young fellows at the counter, though, has a marvellous memory. We'll try him, if you like."

"I should be very grateful."

They found the young man, a shock-headed, horn-rimmed bespectacled product of the modern Board School. He listened to what the librarian had to say and nodded understandingly.

"There's one young fellow," he confided, "takes out nothing but books on alchemy and occultism—comes here now and then and reads in the reference department too."

"Can you give me his name and address?"

"I can find you his ticket, I expect. He hasn't been in for a few days."

The young man disappeared for a moment or two and returned with a long, oblong strip of cardboard.

"The name is Richard Monk," he announced; "address, Ballater Buildings, just behind here."

"That likely to help you in any way?" the librarian enquired curiously, as he took leave of his visitor.

"It might," Benskin admitted. "By the by, if the young man comes in, will you take care that he isn't told about these enquiries?"

"Certainly," the other promised.

Benskin glanced at his watch as he left the library. It was just nine o'clock—not too late for a call at Ballater Buildings. Here, a stroke of good fortune befell him. The man seated behind the desk in the plain stone hall was an ex-policeman who had once been upon his own beat. The two shook hands.

"Have you left the Force then?" the porter asked, looking at Benskin's mufti.

"Not entirely," was the latter's reply. "I'm working in another department. Fact is, I looked in to make an enquiry about one of your lodgers here."

"They're a quaint lot. I keep my eye on 'em as well as I can, and I shouldn't say but they were pretty well on the straight. They're small clerks and tradesmen's assistants, most of them. Whom did you want to ask about?"

"A young fellow named Monk—Richard Monk."

The porter scratched his chin.

"Not much wrong with him, I should think, except that he's been pretty well starved lately. Writing a book, he always says he is, but it don't seem to bring him in much. He got hold of a bit of brass somehow last week and paid up the rent, or out from here he'd have had to go."

If, for a moment, there was a gleam of pleasure in Benskin's eyes, it was, after all, purely professional, and this was his first case of any moment.

"I don't suppose you'd be able to remember," he enquired, "what Monk's movements were last Thursday evening?"

The man considered for a moment.

"He most often stays in at night," he ruminated. "Let me see. Last Thursday, it was, be had to go out for an hour or so in the evening—somewhere about eight or nine, I think it was. I didn't see him come back, but I know it wasn't late because his key had gone again when I went up at ten o'clock. I know that was the night because it was the same night that the old bookseller in Dunster Street, round the corner here, got done in."

Benskin made a little note in his pocketbook.

"I don't know whether anything will come of this," he said, "but keep what you have told me in your mind, will you?—it might be important. The young man, Richard Monk, went out, somewhat contrary to his custom, between eight and nine o'clock last Thursday evening, and returned, you're not sure when, but it must have been before ten,"

"That's gospel," the man confirmed. "Is it worth a pint?"

"It is worth a pint," Benskin assented readily. "Come along!"

The porter took his hat from a cupboard, and the two men sought the hospitality of a neighbouring public house.


ABOUT an hour and a half later, Benskin climbed five flights of stone steps and knocked at a door upon which was gummed an envelope addressed to Richard Monk. There was a brief delay, then the sound of a chair being pushed back and the door was thrown open. A slim, scowling young man, in shirt and trousers, a pipe at the corner of his mouth, looked out at his visitor suspiciously.

"What do you want?" he demanded.

"A word with you, Mr. Monk," Benskin answered. "It had better be spoken inside your room, if you don't mind."

The young man stood grudgingly on one side, and Benskin entered, closing the door behind him, The apartment was barely furnished, and a small iron bedstead stood in one corner without shelter or subterfuge. In the middle of the room was a table covered with sheets of manuscript, and a parcel of typewritten matter, which had evidently recently arrived by post, was piled upon a chair.

"I don't know you, do I?" the young man enquired ungraciously. "What is it that you want?"

"I have a warrant for your arrest for the murder of Samuel Rudd, bookseller, of Dunster Street, last Thursday," Benskin announced. "If you take my advice, you will make no reply whatever to the charge. In any case, you will have to come with me to Bow Street."

The young man was obviously incapable of speech. He tottered to the chair upon which he had been seated and, leaning over the back of it, glared at his visitor.

"Murder! Who are you?" he demanded.

"I am Detective Benskin from Scotland Yard. You had better make your preparations and come along with me at once. The sooner it's over, the better. I have a taxicab outside."

Richard Monk stood away from the chair, leaned over the table, and began to sort the manuscript with trembling fingers.

"Just three minutes," he begged. "This must be done. My book. I've just finished it."

"I will wait," Benskin assented.

In less than the time stated, the loose pages were all in order and heaped side by side with the typewritten script. The young man tied a piece of tape around both. Then, turning away, lie produced a coat and waistcoat.

"Better put on a collar and tie," Benskin advised him, not unkindly. "The more respectable an appearance you present, the better."

The accused youth shivered in every limb. He went to a drawer, however, selected the articles mentioned, and dressed slowly. Then he reached for a hat and stole a furtive glance towards the window, which stood a few inches open. Benskin, with an adroit movement, slipped handcuffs upon his wrists.

"You mustn't mind," he explained. "You see, this is a serious charge."

Richard Monk looked down at his fetters with a strange expression in his eyes.

"You'll have to turn out the gas yourself then," he said. "Do you mind locking the door too and giving the key to the man downstairs?"

"I shall have to keep the key." Benskin told him. "Your rooms will be searched later on."

The young man shrugged his shoulders.

"There are only my manuscripts here," he declared. "All the material—you mightn't think it to look at me—for a great book. It might pay for my defence, unless I do the Eugene Aram trick and defend myself."

"It may not be necessary," Benskin observed. "The magistrates may decide that we have not a sufficient case against you."

Upon the first landing. Monk paused for a moment,

"There is one question," he said, "I should like to ask you."

"I have already told you in your own interests that I should advise you not to speak at all," was the stern reminder.

"Nevertheless," the other proceeded, clutching at the banisters, "I want to ask you this. I can't go on for a moment, anyway. My knees feel funny, What made you single me out as being the man who might have killed Samuel Rudd? Did anyone think that they saw me enter or leave the shop?" Benskin shook his head.

"You must not ask me to explain. We're not allowed to discuss these things at all. I will tell you this, though: I got on your track because there was a volume in Rudd's bookshop put in upside down."

"The Rosicrucians! God!" the young man muttered.


A MONTH or so later, curiosity tempted Benskin to loiter once more outside the bookshop in Dunster Street. The girl came out to the shop entrance, more sullen than ever, more untidy, thin, and hollow-eyed. She motioned to him and he crossed the threshold.

"You are sure you hung the right man, Mr. Detective?" she asked, a terrible bitterness in her tone.

"As sure as it is possible to be of anything in this world," he answered.

She considered the matter for a moment, her eyes like pools of sombre fire in their pallid setting.

"By rights," she acknowledged slowly, "I should have stood in the dock, not he."

Then a terrible fear came to Benskin, who was a brave man. He was no sentimentalist, and he had heard the death sentence passed on Richard Monk with no other feeling save one of natural and professional satisfaction that justice had been done. In those few seconds, however, a torturing thought racked him. His first case! What if, after all, he had sent an innocent man to the gallows!... He steadied his voice as well as he could.

"What do you mean?" he demanded.

"Richard was my lover," she confided. "We should have been married as soon as that book had been published. I told him I couldn't wait any longer; I told him that there were seventy pounds in the till. It was true that I was out that night, but I left the side door in the passage, which he used when he came to visit me, open so that he could come and go unseen."

"You were out?" Benskin repeated, with an immense relief.

"Yes, I was out. I didn't kill him with my own hands, although I've done it in my mind many a time. Richard did that, all right. But do you think I shall be able to forget that it was I who put the idea into his head? He didn't want to do it. He hated the thought. It was I who nagged him into it. What do you think of that, Mr. Detective—or don't you ever think at all except to get your poor prisoner under lock and key and chuckle when he swings? What do you think about it now, I wonder? Richard struck the blow, but there was never murder in his brain. I put it there. Here I am. Richard is hanged. Is that justice?"

"You could have given evidence," Benskin told her. "It might not have altered the sentence, but one never knows."

"He wouldn't let me. I went to see him. He swore that if I did he would contradict me flatly, and say that I was lying to shield him. He'd have done it too! Richard was like that. He was chock-full of horror with himself for the thing he had done and he wanted to die."

"I believe he did," Benskin groaned. "And now?"

The girl chuckled morbidly. There was a terrible light in her eyes.

"I've got half the money," she said. "He left it under the mat in the parlour. Do you know how I spend my nights? I light the gas and I go round every shelf in the place to see if there's a book upside down. That's because I'm going mad, you see! I'm mad enough now to kill you if I'd anything to do it with."

She turned away, disappearing through the inner door, slamming and locking it after her. Benskin slowly left the place. From that moment he felt that he should never think again, without a nauseating thrill, of the commencement of his career, of those suave compliments which had fallen to his lot for having tracked down the murderer of Samuel Rudd.</story>