<story title="THE SAD END OF MR. WILLIAM STARR" date="1928">
There were times when Benskin almost hated his profession, when he felt himself filled with an intense loathing of the sickening details of the various crimes which he was called upon to investigate. The room in the Euston Road Temperance Hotel to which he had been hastily summoned, its barren disorder, the pitiful, unclean meagreness of the whole setting, perhaps rendered more terrible still by the sight of the lifeless body crumpled up across the iron bedstead, at first filled him with nothing but disgust. Police Constable Collier, summoned from his beat to take charge of the room until one of his superiors should arrive, looked at the matter, however, differently. It was a gala morning for him, whose taste for sensation had usually to be appeased by the arrest of a white-faced pickpocket or the stopping of a drunken brawl.

"Copped it fair, he did, sir," he remarked, as he pointed to the small blue hole in the man's forehead.

"Was he dead when they fetched you?" Benskin asked.

"Dead as mutton, sir."

The detective stood a little away from the bed and studied the room. A single cane chair was lying on its back, with a broken leg, a worn strip of linoleum was rolled up and disarranged. The bed-clothes were in disorder, a broken glass which smelt of spirits lay upon the floor. There was a handful of loose money on the mantelpiece and, curiously enough, a gold watch and chain, apparently of considerable value. Benskin, conquering an aversion from which he had never wholly succeeded in freeing himself, came a little closer to the bed, and examined the dead man. The latter was apparently of middle age, clean-shaven, wearing the shirt and trousers of a labouring man, but presenting many indications of a superior station in life. On the floor by the side of the bed was a modern-looking revolver from which one cartridge had been discharged.

"What about the doctor?" the detective enquired.

"The waiter's gone round for Doctor Jacob, sir. His surgery's in the next street. The woman as keeps the house she's downstairs waiting for you."

"Bring her up," was the prompt command.

Police Constable Collier departed upon his errand, and in due course there were heavy footsteps upon the stairs, and he ushered in a lady whom he announced as the proprietress of the hotel. Except that she was rather inclined to be fat instead of thin, she conformed very faithfully to type. She was untidy, nervous, and almost incoherent. Early though the hour was, she gave one the impression that she had already had resort to some alcoholic stimulant.

"Do you know the name of this poor fellow?" Benskin asked, pointing towards the bed.

"Mr. Brown, he called himself, sir. Don't know whether that's his right name or not."

"How long has he been staying here?"

"Three nights—leastways he slept here three nights. He hasn't been in much during the daytime."

"Do you know anything about him?"

"Nothing, except he's paid a week's rent in advance for the room. There's a couple of beers sent out for owing, and a bottle of ginger beer he had last night when he came in after the pubs were shut."

"Was he staying here alone? Had he any visitors?"

"None that I know of," the woman replied. "I ain't always about, of course, but there was no one with him permanent."

"Was this all his luggage?" Benskin asked, pointing to a shabby kit-bag from which the initials seemed to have been scratched away, and a cheap green canvas portmanteau.

"All that I know of," she assented. "He had a trunk when he come but he took that away the next day."

"Did he say what his occupation was?"

"Something out of work. He wasn't fond of talking about himself, but he did let that slip. Kind of clerk, I should think he was, or something of that sort."

Benskin looked at the body thoughtfully. "Did you hear a shot in the night?" he enquired.

"Not a thing."

"Do you know what time he came in?"

"Not an idea. I never spies upon my lodgers as long as they behaves themselves. Besides, I sleeps in the attic."

"Anyone nearer than you likely to have heard him?"

"Not last night," the woman decided, after a moment's reflection. "There's no one in the two lower rooms. These big, cheap hotels near the station take all the people."

There was a knock at the door and Doctor Jacob entered. He was a pale, weary-looking man, with hooked nose, thinning grey hair, and a tired stoop of the shoulders. He deposited his little black bag on the edge of the bed, greeted the proprietress, and looked enquiringly towards Benskin.

"Inspector Benskin of Scotland Yard," the latter announced. "I was fetched here by telephone call from the constable on point duty. You can see the cause."

He indicated the figure upon the bed. The doctor put on a pair of horn-rimmed spectacles and made a brief but singularly cold-blooded examination.

"Bullet wound through the head," he remarked. "Close quarters, I should say. Case of suicide, I suppose. Wait a moment."

He unfastened the man's waistcoat. A tittle expression of surprise escaped him.

"What is it?" Benskin asked, drawing nearer.

The doctor pointed downwards.

"The clothes of a poor man outside," he observed—"but pale blue silk underclothes. Seems queer!"

The detective leaned a little farther over the bed. The doctor was right. The man's vest was of thick spun silk. He felt round the back of the neck. Inside was the name of a famous Bond Street hosier.

"Some one in hiding I imagine," the doctor propounded indifferently. "That's your job, not mine, anyway. Cause of death that bullet wound, without a doubt."

"How long should you say he had been dead?"

The doctor occupied himself with the body for a few minutes.

"About six hours," he decided.

He took up the revolver, shook out the cartridges, and held the weapon to his own forehead.

"Very simple," he observed. "I'll just do what's necessary, and then I suppose it will be the mortuary."

He bent over the bed once more and Benskin continued his search of the room. The gold watch had the maker's name in it, and there were the torn fragments of several letters which he carefully placed in the breast pocket of his coat. The markings had been removed from the few other articles of clothing. There was nothing in the shape of cards or papers by which immediate identification was possible. The doctor stood up and wrote a few lines in his memorandum book.

"Any fresh discoveries?" Benskin enquired.

"Nothing to discover," was the weary reply. "I'll give you the certificate when necessary. I suppose my fee—"

"That will be all right," the other assured him.

The doctor took his leave, followed a few minutes later by his fellow investigator.


SOON after the appearance of the evening papers, a middle-aged man, accompanied by a young lady in a state of considerable agitation, presented themselves at Scotland Yard, and were ushered into Benskin's room. The young lady, who was good-looking in a somewhat ordinary way, addressed him at once.

"Miss Hammond, my name is," she explained. "I'm private secretary to Mr. William Starr. He's been missing for several days. We thought he'd gone abroad, but we saw in the paper...."

She broke down for a moment. Her companion interposed a word.

"I'm Mr. Starr's servant, sir," he announced. "It's quite right what the young lady says. Mr. Starr went off last Thursday—we thought he was going to Boulogne for the week-end, but there've been a lot of people trying to see him since and we ain't heard anything of him."

"Of course it doesn't seem possible," Miss Hammond went on, "but when I read in the evening paper about a man having been found in the Euston Road, and the description and everything, it gave me quite a shock. I showed the paper to Furnell here, and he thought we ought to go there and make sure."

"Couldn't have rested quietly unless we had, sir," the man concluded. "When we got there, a policeman told us the body had been moved to the mortuary, and that we couldn't get in to see it without an order."

Benskin took down his hat.

"I'm sorry," he said to the girl. "You won't find it a very pleasant place to visit, but I will take you down there. First, however, in order to prepare yourself a little, do you recognise this?"

He produced the gold watch. The man turned it over in his hand with an exclamation of dismay.

"It's the master's, sir," he confided. "Was that found with the—with the body of the man who shot himself?"

"It was, and there is another thing—with whom did your master deal—say for his underclothes?"

"Beale and Inman in Bond Street, sir."

"Did he ever wear light blue silk ones?"

"Nearly all the time," the young lady cried.

"Then I am afraid you must prepare yourself for the worst," Benskin warned them. "The sooner we get it over the better perhaps...."


IT was an unpleasant errand, but brief enough. The girl gave one glance at the dead man's face and burst into sobs. Her companion looked away with a shiver.

"That's the master, sir," he announced—"that's him without a doubt. As good a one as ever I shall find again in this world; and what he wanted to do it for, when there's heaps of his friends he's helped himself who'd have given him a hand if he only hadn't been too proud to ask for it! I was kind of suspicious," he went on, "when he gave me my wages six months in advance, in case he didn't get back."

Benskin escorted them to the police car which was waiting and handed them in.

"I shall be staying here a few minutes," he said. "There are still one or two formalities. Will you give me your names and addresses, please."

The girl handed him a card and wrote the servant's name on the back.

"Was Mr. Starr in business?" Benskin asked her. Miss Hammond nodded.

"He was a financial agent," she exclaimed, "and company promoter. He's floated some wonderful companies in his time. Just now he wasn't doing quite so well and he seemed very queer and irritable. What Furnell says is quite true, though. There's plenty would have helped him if he'd been a little more confidential."

"You knew that he was hard up, I suppose, then?" The girl hesitated.

"I couldn't help knowing it," she admitted. "Everyone seemed to be tumbling over themselves to get money out of him. Will there be an inquest?"

Benskin nodded.

"Naturally. You will have to give evidence, I am afraid, but as it is such a simple case, it will only be a matter of a few minutes. You will get your subpoenas in due course."

"And the funeral?" she faltered, her eyes again filling with

"The day afterwards, I imagine. By the by, what was Mr. Starr's address?"

"Number 7a, Clarges Street," the man replied.

"You are staying there?"

"Yes, sir. I've had no order to leave. I suppose someone will come along who'll look after affairs as soon as the news gets about."

"7a, Clarges Street," Benskin repeated. "Please be there in an hour's time, if you don't mind. There are one or two little formalities to be attended to, and I might have to go through some of his papers."

"I will be there too," the young lady promised; "I shall be able to tell you anything you want to know."

She spoke almost eagerly. Benskin took off his hat and waved the car onwards. His eyes were on the girl's face until the last moment.


THE Sub-Commissioner had never been more surprised than when Benskin presented himself in his room early on the morning fixed for the inquest and asked that an application for a formal adjournment should be made.

"What on earth are you going to say, Benskin?" he demanded. "What reason could there possibly be for an adjournment? It seems to me that never in my life have I seen a clearer case."

"I thought so at first," the other admitted. "Sometimes I think so now, and yet there are one or two very peculiar points about it."

"The long and the short of the matter is, I suppose," the Sub-Commissioner remarked, "that you think the man was murdered instead of having committed suicide?"

His subordinate avoided a definite response.

"I really am completely in the dark at present, sir," he acknowledged. "You know how one has to trust to instinct sometimes."

"Your instinct has been worth following more than once," the Sub-Commissioner allowed, leaning back in his chair. "Let's hear a little more."

"Well, I didn't like the doctor," Benskin confessed. "He seemed to take everything much too much for granted. Then there was another thing, When he took off the vest I saw distinctly on the man's arms the marks of hypodermic injections. The doctor too must have seen them. He made no remark, failed to call my attention to them, or to examine them for himself. He just took up the revolver and showed me how he thought the thing was done."

"What about the motive?" the Sub-Commissioner asked. "There's a very serious motive for suicide; none whatever that I can see for murder. The man had lost all his money. His bankers had called in his overdraft and his creditors were clamouring around him. The little cash he had in his pocket and the gold watch were untouched. Of course, he may have had complications in his life we know nothing about yet. Have you stumbled across one of them, by any chance?"

"I can't say that I have," Benskin admitted. "There is no doubt that he was on very friendly terms with the secretary, to whom apparently he had left anything that may be saved from the wreck of his estate. Beyond that, I gather that he led the ordinary life of a middle-aged man about town."

"How would his financial position pan out exactly?"

"Badly, without a doubt. I called upon the young lady secretary again yesterday to see whether I could pick up any further information and I must confess I was astounded."

"In what way?"

"He seems to have dealt largely in stocks and shares and property," Benskin explained, "without keeping any account of his transactions except what the entries in his bank-book disclose. Then, this last year especially, he has been drawing considerable sums of money from his bank just on the day before any of the great race meetings."

"But still," the Sub-Commissioner urged, "why do you want the inquest adjourned?"

"Because there is something behind the whole affair I can't quite figure out. I should like a little more time to enquire into his private life. We are taking it for granted now that he committed suicide because he was undoubtedly in desperate straits and there appears to be not the slightest motive for any one to have shot him. That may be because we know so little of his private life. A man living as he did must naturally have had enemies. I only want a few days."

"We shall be damnably unpopular," his Chief grumbled, "but of course if you really want it, we'll apply."

"I must have it," Benskin insisted. "I hate making myself a nuisance, but I think the coroner will forgive me some day—at least, I hope so."

"If he ever does," the Sub-Commissioner remarked incredulously, "I'll stand you the best dinner I've ever ordered in my life."

So, at the end of that dreary, formal function, which took place on the day arranged, a thunderbolt flashed into the court. The doctor's evidence, followed by Miss Hammond's, seemed so conclusively to point to suicide that people took scant interest in the case. The general public deserted almost in a body before the coroner addressed himself to the jury. Then, quite unexpectedly, Benskin got up in his place, and on behalf of the police, made formal application for an adjournment. The coroner looked at him in amazement.

"An adjournment?" he exclaimed. "But for what reason?"

"The police have had very little time to make enquiries," Benskin pointed out. "They admit that the evidence as to suicide is, on the face of it, conclusive. On the other hand, they feel that in view of the fact that a large portion of the deceased's assets have apparently disappeared, they should like an opportunity of making a few enquiries before the matter is absolutely closed. A man who deals in large sums of money without keeping proper books in which their disposal could be traced, is, as you must admit, one of the most possible victims for a cleverly constructed crime."

The witnesses, Furnell, the doctor and Miss Hammond, were all seated in the well of the court, together with a lawyer who was understood to be representing them. The latter rose to his feet.

"It has occurred very seldom in my lifetime, Mr. Coroner," he said, "that I have found myself in the position of protesting against such an application as has just been made, especially when it has been made under the auspices of Scotland Yard, but I cannot for the life of me see the use or the advantage to anybody of the proposed adjournment. A clearer case of suicide, I venture to say, was never laid before you, sir. Why should my witnesses be inconvenienced, the poor fellow's funeral postponed, for no reason whatsoever?"

The coroner cleared his throat.

"Mr. Ellis," he admitted, "I feel a considerable amount of sympathy with what you have just said. At the same time, it has never been my custom to disregard an application made by a responsible person on behalf of the police. The inquest is adjourned until a week from to-day."

The few stragglers in the court rose to their feet, and made towards the exit. The girl remained in her seat for a moment, her eyes fixed upon Benskin. The doctor, on the other hand, shambled up to him.

"I can't imagine why you wish to waste our time in this manner, sir," he protested sharply. "The whole affair is so simple. From the moment I saw the body, I realised exactly what had happened, and the whole of the evidence has only confirmed my conviction. Adjourn the inquest, indeed! I have never heard of anything so foolish! You police can't have enough to occupy yourselves with,"

"I am very sorry if it inconveniences any of you," Benskin replied politely. "You see there are just one or two more enquiries which should be made before a serious matter like this is concluded. The jury's verdict once given is final, you must remember."

The doctor hurried off, with a little grunt of disgust. Somewhat to Benskin's surprise, when he reached the pavement he found Miss Hammond standing by his side. She was looking a little pale, but she was quite collected.

"Shall I see you again before the adjourned inquest, Mr. Benskin?" she asked. "There are letters every morning which of course you can see if you like—nothing very cheerful so far though, I am afraid. A young man from the Official Receiver's comes in and takes them away, but I always open them first."

"I'll look around, if I may," Benskin promised. "I'm sorry to bother you all with this adjournment."

"You ought to know whether it is necessary," was the quiet rejoinder. "If it is, then we have nothing to complain about."

"It will only be for a week," Benskin reminded her. "I am afraid I'm rather unpopular with all of you, especially the doctor, but one gets ideas, you know."

She looked at him keenly.

"I wonder what yours is?"

"Probably a mare's nest."


BEFORE the week was up, Benskin received a call from Miss Hammond. She was wearing a little more rouge than when he had at first seen her and she had apparently used her lipstick freely. She entered the office boldly, as one who has a grievance. Her manner was, if anything, a little over-confident. Nevertheless, there was no concealing the disquietude of her eyes.

"I want to know, Mr. Benskin," she said, as soon as he had provided her with a chair, "why I am being followed?"

"Followed?" he repeated. "By whom?"

"That is what I came to ask you," she rejoined. "All that I know is that twice during the last three days I have started out to pay a visit to a friend and discovered that a person whom I have seen loitering upon the other side of Clarges Street has dogged my footsteps."

"That seems very queer," Benskin observed. "If the person annoys you in any way, I should appeal to the nearest policeman."

"Are you sure that it is not the police who are responsible?" she demanded.

Benskin looked at her with those very innocent blue eyes of his wide open.

"My dear young lady," he exclaimed, "why on earth should the police take any particular interest in your movements?"

"I don't know, I'm sure," she admitted, "but there it is. Wherever I go, this man follows me. Twice I've given up the idea of going to visit my friends."

"Why change your plans because you were followed?" Benskin asked swiftly.

The girl was momentarily at a loss.

"No particular reason why I should," she confessed, "but I don't like people prying into my concerns."

"Miss Hammond," he assured her, a little more gravely, "I don't think that anyone wants to pry into your concerns. At the same time, you must remember that your late employer, although his suicide seems to be a reasonable enough action considering the state of his finances, died under very peculiar circumstances. He was reputed to be a wealthy man. He has left behind him nothing but debts. He is known to have been possessed of considerable property, stocks and shares. There is no evidence at all, not even in his banking accounts, of how he has disposed of these. You are the only person who might have thrown light upon the situation and you profess yourself unable to do so."

"But how can I?" she protested. "Mr. Starr kept no books—his was a one-man business—he didn't need to. If he had kept books, as he always said, he would have been liable to income tax."

"Just so," Benskin agreed. "Well, I am afraid I can't help you, Miss Hammond. I should advise you to speak to anyone whom you are sure is following you on any future occasion, and find out by whose instructions he is acting. You must remember that Mr. Starr had some very heavy creditors. Any one of them might be interested in your movements."

Miss Hammond took her leave without obtaining any further satisfaction, and Benskin, as soon as she had gone, glanced through the report of her movements on the previous day.


THE adjourned inquest opened without any indications of the sensation in which it was to result. The jury once more viewed the body. Miss Hammond and Furnell, the servant, again gave their evidence of identification. The doctor's evidence followed, almost word for word to the same effect as on the previous occasion. The coroner, however, instead of at once addressing the jury, referred to some papers by his side, and one or two observant people in the court noticed a distinct change in his manner. He nodded to the sergeant, who threw open the door of the witness box.

"Police Surgeon Harding."

The police surgeon stepped into the box. Doctor Jacob, who was seated just below, started slightly and leaned forward in his place. The coroner addressed the new witness, and after the ordinary preliminaries, again consulted his notes.

"You did not at first examine the body of the deceased?" he asked.

"I did not, sir," the surgeon acknowledged. "In the face of the testimony of Doctor Jacob, who was called in and who is a fully qualified man, it was not thought necessary. I had two inquests that day on the other side of London."

"You have since, however, at the request of the police, made an examination of the body?"

"I have, sir."

"Tell us what conclusions you arrived at." The surgeon hesitated.

"I will admit the possibility of error, sir," he said, "but I came to the conclusion that the deceased had been dead for several days longer than the period stated, and that death was due to morphine poisoning. The deceased was obviously a drug fiend."

There was a ripple of sensation in court. News that something strange was happening, or likely to happen, spread like wildfire, and people came streaming in on tiptoe.

"What about the revolver shot in the forehead?" the Coroner continued.

"I formed the opinion, sir," the witness replied, "that the shot had been fired into the head of the deceased some time after death."

Silence was impossible. There was a babel of whispering voices throughout the court. Doctor Jacob, it was noticed, was livid. Miss Hammond was rubbing her face with her handkerchief. The trembling fingers of her other hand held a stick of lip salve.

"That is a most extraordinary statement of yours, Surgeon," the coroner pointed out gravely.

"It is the result of my very careful examination of the body," the police surgeon announced.

The coroner waved him away and his place was taken by a well-dressed, portly-looking gentleman. The coroner turned towards him.

"Your name is Doctor Marriott, I believe, house physician to St. Luke's Hospital, Euston."

"That is my name and position."

At this point, Doctor Jacob was seen to rise stealthily to his feet. A burly-looking man in plain clothes, who was standing immediately behind, touched him on the shoulder, however, and he resumed his place.

"You have seen the body of the deceased?"

"Yes, sir."

"Are you able to identify it?"

"Certainly. It is the body of Sidney John Mason, who died in one of my wards last Thursday week from morphine poisoning."

The murmur of voices rose until the coroner was forced to tap sharply upon the table before him. As soon as silence was restored, he turned back to the witness with an exceedingly pertinent question.

"Can you account in any way for the body of one of your patients, who died in your hospital, and who should have been buried under its auspices, being found in a temperance hotel in the Euston Road, surrounded by evidences of another personality?"

"If my answer to your question involves no contempt of the Court," the witness replied, "I should say at once that the fact can only be accounted for by the existence of a cleverly exploited and carried out conspiracy. Mason's body left the hospital for burial at two o'clock on the day arranged for. A coffin was deposited in the grave prepared before three o'clock."

"You know," the coroner asked, "that the grave has been dug up and the coffin found to contain nothing but bricks?"

"Such is my information."

Three times the coroner was forced to appeal for silence. At last he rose to his feet.

"Gentlemen of the jury," he said, "your unnecessary presence here, as you have now gathered, has been due to a conspiracy with which another Court will have to deal. You are discharged immediately from the present case and relieved from all future services for two years. Any further proceedings in connection with the deceased," the coroner added drily, with a significant glance in front of him, "will take place elsewhere."

The burly-looking man leaned forward and again touched Doctor Jacob upon the shoulder. Two policemen appeared from the back of the court. It took half a dozen men to make a lane through which Miss Daphne Hammond, Doctor Jacob and William Furnell were conducted to the police van which awaited them outside.


THE Sub-Commissioner kept his word. He entertained Benskin that night to the best dinner his club could provide. The first glass of wine he drank to his companion almost formally.

"Benskin," he said, "the Chief desires me to present to you his compliments. You have done the Force a remarkably good service. All the evening papers have laudatory articles concerning the establishment, but we will see that you get the credit to which you are entitled. I don't want all the details. I've picked up a few already, but just give me an idea how you tumbled to the thing. Here's your very good health!"

"Well, it began like this," Benskin explained, setting down his glass and helping himself to caviar. "I thought it extraordinary that Doctor Jacob made no remark about the numerous scars on the man's body from the hypodermic injections, and then, too, I noticed that the body bore marks of the injections sometimes made at a hospital to ensure that death has actually taken place. Then all sorts of little suspicious things cropped up. First of all, the cunning way the man was supposed to have crept into hiding, and yet in the matter of his underclothes and gold watch left evidences as to his identity. Then there was the disappearance of all his ready money, leaving nothing but debts behind. I couldn't make head or tail of his bank-book, so I had a long talk with the bank manager who was very sympathetic, chiefly because he dislikes Starr. We arrived in due course at a pretty clear idea of the man's financial position. He'd been a rich man once, without a doubt, but he lost fifty thousand pounds in rubber two years ago, and that started him on this game. Whenever he got a chance, he paid in money which he received from various quarters to a bank account abroad, and as he couldn't build up fast enough that way, he kept on drawing large sums through his own bank and pretending he'd lost them at race meetings. All this time, of course, he paid nobody, and he entered into every speculation where he could get a few months' credit and draw in a certain amount of cash. In this fashion he drained away the whole of his assets and built up a reserve of something like seventy thousand pounds in hard cash, all deposited in the United States. As soon as I had arrived at these facts, I put aside all idea of suicide and worked upon a theory of my own, which turned out to be the correct one. I looked up Doctor Jacob's past and I didn't think much of it. I paid a visit to the hospital and discovered that a patient, attended by Doctor Jacob, had died there three days before of morphine poisoning and had been buried at a certain cemetery nearby. A few more enquiries and I discovered that Doctor Jacob was paying off some pressing debts, and was ordering in whisky by the case, instead of by the bottle, that two men from the undertaker's establishment with whom the hospital had a contract had been drunk for two days, and that Miss Hammond was dividing her time between buying a trousseau and trying to get down to Tilbury. It didn't need much more, you see, sir. Starr had thought the scheme out carefully enough. He had got hold of a crook doctor, spent money freely, squared the landlady at the Temperance Hotel—three hundred pounds, she got paid—and up to a certain point the whole thing worked out according to plan.

"And what about Starr?" the Sub-Commissioner asked.

"Well, we shall know in a few minutes," Benskin replied, looking down the crowded room.

An official-looking messenger, preceded by one of the club officials, was making his way towards them. Benskin, with a word of apology to his Chief, tore open the envelope of the note which was handed to him. He dismissed the messenger with a little wave of the hand.

"Starr was arrested this afternoon at Tilbury," he announced "He and Miss Hammond were off on the Ortana to-night for the South Sea Islands."

The Sub-Commissioner was very human.

"Poor rascal!" he sighed, as he watched his glass being filled.</story>