<story title="WIVES NEVER TELL" date="1929">
EUSTACE GRANT was a man of fixed habits and prejudices. One of these was a strenuous objection to receiving at his Berkeley Square flat anyone connected with the little band of super-crooks over which he presided; another was to retire to bed three times a week at half-past ten. Consequently, when his servant announced a visitor at five minutes before that hour on a night when he had no engagements, and had already lit his last cigarette before turning in, he was annoyed.

"Who is it, Brooks?" he asked, stretching out his hand to the drawer of his writing table from long established custom.

"Doctor Bradman, sir."

Grant left the gun undisturbed.

"Von can show him in," he directly briefly.

Bradman, as spick and span as ever, with tired eyes and listless manner, sauntered into the room.

"Sorry, Major," he apologised. "I know you don't like being disturbed here, but I had to see you. I want, to go out to-morrow evening."

"Rather sudden, isn't it?" Bradman nodded.

"The thing's just happened that way," he explained. "To-morrow's indicated."

"Local?"

"Hampstead. I've been trying to persuade a pal of mine who has a small practice up there to let me in on a stunt I've figured out for months. He only made up his mind this evening. To-morrow has to be the day."

"Want any help?"

"Not even a get-away. It's a quiet affair, but if it turns out as I hope, it may put me in the running for the big prize."

Grant raised his eyebrows.

"To-morrow night's yours then," he consented. "Have a drink before you go?" Bradman shook his head.

"No, thanks. I know your habits and I'm off. As we are alone though, for a minute, I should like just one private word with you, Major."

"Go ahead."

"It's about Nick of New York."

"Well?"

"That proposal of his involves us in a huge gamble, doesn't it? Do you think he'll bring in the Clarence diamond?"

Grant considered his reply carefully.

"I do not," he decided. "I tell you frankly, Doctor, that if I thought he had the ghost of a chance I should abandon my own enterprise. I like Nick, all right, and we've made him very welcome over here, but I've no fancy for seeing him become a millionaire at our expense. That's why I'm rather glad he's chosen an impossible task."

"You think he'll be trapped?" Bradman asked, a note of eagerness underlying his lazy tone.

Eustace Grant departed from his usual custom. He lit another cigarette, pressed a drink upon his visitor, and helped himself from the side-hoard.

"I don't fancy you've ever cottoned to our friend Nick," he observed, watching his visitor keenly.

Bradman hesitated.

"I can't tell you exactly what the feeling is I have with regard to him. I certainly don't dislike him. He's done some very neat, small work for us, but I have a sort of anxiety about him I can't put into words."

"Do your best," Grant begged.

"Well, I think I'm a little afraid of him," Bradman continued. "He never seems to make a mistake. If he should happen to bring off this Clarence diamond affair, he'd have the laugh on us for the rest of our lives. They wouldn't forget to rub it in from the other side, and somehow or other, I can't help feeling that he's got some devilish scheme at the back of his mind that's going to give him a chance."

"Well?"

Bradman shrugged his shoulders.

"I ask myself," he continued, "what's the use of my risking my life and liberty to enrich our friend Nick."

"There's a fine of five hundred pounds if you don't go out before the end of next week," Grant reminded him,

"Just so," Bradman acquiesced, "but after all, five hundred pounds isn't a great deal of money,"

"If you want my advice," Grant declared, "you'd bettor go on with your enterprise. The terms were we were all to go out once. The others have mostly come up to the scratch and we must do the same. It wouldn't be playing the game to shirk."

"Very well," Bradman agreed. "I obey orders."

He paused to finish his whisky and soda. Both men were fully conscious of a lurking sense of reserve in the air—something which neither of them cared to put into plain words. The doctor set down his empty tumbler and took the plunge.

"Major," he asked, "if Nick Conklin should happen to bring off this coup, should you consider that we were reasonable people if we allowed an American to despoil us to such an extent?"

"I find that an awkward question, Doctor," Grant admitted cautiously.

"It's one which we shall very soon have to face."

"It seems to me that we all opened our mouths rather too wide that night," Grant acknowledged. "Still, there it is: we accepted the challenge and you know our motto—'Crooks pay.' We've got to keep our word."

"You are certainly right, Major," Bradman agreed. "We opened our mouths too wide, but whose fault was it? Who got us boasting about ourselves and our exploits and what we could do? Why, that fellow Conklin. He worked for it deliberately."

"You may be right," Grant confessed. "He's a conceited little devil himself. He got us going that night, all right."

Bradman's speech became slower than ever. It was almost a drawl, but a very impressive one.

"On reflection, the thing seems to me absurd. Seven of us are to go out and risk our lives and bring in—well, just consider what there is in now. There are the Reinberg stones, worth at least forty thousand pounds, a hundred thousand dollars in American hills which Chaplain Lane retrieved, the Ranee's jewels from the museum, which might be worth anything between forty and fifty thousand pounds, and the balance of Mat's haul, after we'd we'd led with his widow. There alone is a fortune, Major, which surely should belong to one of us and not to a perfect stranger. Crooks pay, all right. What about Sam Rubens? You were firm enough there, and quite rightly, but I can't see the fun of risking my life or parting with all that loot to an outsider—especially as I think that he has something up his sleeve."

"What could he have up his sleeve?" Grant queried.

Bradman hesitated. He splashed a little more soda water into his glass and toyed with a cigarette.

"He's too friendly with Miss Dring for my fancy," he confided. "I've seen them out together more than once. Miss Dring amuses herself with us, but she belongs, when she chooses to take her place, to the class of person who has the entrée to Clarence House. She may know something and be standing in with Conklin. We don't want them to walk off together and have the laugh on us, do we? That's why I say that our motto was meant to apply amongst ourselves and not to a casual visitor."

There was a quick gleam in Grant's eyes, the springing into life of an agreeable idea.

"Very well put, Doctor," he murmured. "Nick, after all, is an American and a foreigner. I must look up the rules. An Honorary Member, that is what Nick of New York is. If he brings in the Clarence diamond and claims the booty, we shall have to consider the matter from that point of view."

Bradman smiled to himself as he took his leave and went happily into the night.


Less than twenty-four hours later the doctor's enterprise was definitely launched, and he himself, with a black bag in each hand, was waiting before the front door of an inhospitable-looking house in one of the less prosperous regions of Hampstead. The door was opened after a considerable delay by a young woman dressed for the street.

"What do you want?" she asked, without any particular effort at courtesy.

"This is Number 7 Myrtle Street, isn't it?" he enquired. "A Mr. Lazenby telephoned to Doctor Hammond, asking him to call."

"I didn't know Mr. Lazenby had telephoned and you aren't Doctor Hammond, anyway," the girl rejoined suspiciously.

"Of course I'm not," was the terse reply. "But I'm Doctor Hammond's locum tenens, if you know what that is. Doctor Hammond is away for the day—perhaps for several days."

The girl permitted him to enter but seemed still dubious.

"I don't think Mr. Lazenby will care to see any other doctor," she objected.

"Please show me the way to his room," Bradman insisted. "I can soon find out whether he requires medical attendance or not."

She led him up the dark, unpleasant staircase and opened a door of a room on the first landing. Bradman followed her into a dreary and meagrely furnished little apartment. An elderly man with a grey heard was sitting up in a plain iron bedstead, reading a newspaper. He scowled over the top of it at the two intruders.

"Who are you?" he demanded. "What do you want?"

"I'm taking Doctor Hammond's place for a few days," Bradman explained. "He asked me to look in and see you this evening. As a matter of fact, I think you telephoned, but I was coming in any case."

The man on the bed shook his paper vigorously.

"I telephoned for Doctor Hammond if he happened to be passing—not unless—just if he happened to be passing. I didn't require a professional visit at all."

"That's quite all right," Bradman assured him, with a smile. "Doctor Hammond's down in Brighton and may be there for several days. He told me you were a special patient, and even if you didn't ring me up, I was to drop in and see you."

"I can't afford two doctors," the man on the bed declared. "Doctor Hammond is very dear—very dear indeed."

"Well, I am not," Bradman confided. "In fact, I don't make any charge at all for these odd visits."

The old man nodded his head in mollified fashion.

"No charge at all?" he repeated. "None whatever."

"You can leave us," Mr. Lazenby told the girl. "I will talk to this gentleman for a few minutes. You heard what he said. No charge at all. Very reasonable, I am sure."

"Can I go out for half an hour?" she asked.

"Not longer," the old man stipulated. "Don't forget the key."

The girl departed, after a curious glance at Bradman. The latter, fresh from the ministrations of the coiffeur and general disguiser of Flood's Club, endured her scrutiny with indifference.

"What have you got in those two bags?" Mr. Lazenby demanded, as she closed the door.

"Medicines in one and surgical instruments in the other," was the brief reply. "Now let's see what the trouble is with you to-day? Let me feel your pulse."

The man on the bed held out his wrinkled wrist.

"It's my heart I'm worried about," he confided. "I shall welcome a second opinion, Doctor. Our friend Hammond is very sound, I am sure, but a little hasty."

The doctor had forgotten none of the old tricks. His touch was light and skilful, his tone soothing. As soon as he had concluded his examination, he opened the smaller of his black bags, produced a bottle, poured out a dose from it into a medicine glass, and brought it to the bedside.

"I do not, as a rule, prescribe drugs, Mr. Lazenby," he said, "but I find yours a very interesting case and with interesting possibilities. Your heart, in effect, is quite sound, but you have one slight weakness which is entirely curable. In three weeks you will be a strong man. Drink this in one draught, if you can."

Mr. Lazenby obeyed orders and chuckled as he sank back amongst the pillows.

"Very good news, Doctor," he declared. "I always thought that I ought to have a second opinion. Hammond—very good fellow— old-fashioned."

He closed his eyes, and slept peacefully. . . .

Bradman listened for a moment to his breathing and then picked up the larger of his two bags. With it in his hand, he turned towards the narrow wardrobe, scarcely wider than a grandfather's clock, which stood by the bedside. He examined and felt it over from top to bottom, his fingers straying down the panelled fronts, and he only smiled when the clink of metal responded to the tap of his finger nails. A moment later, the bag was open upon the floor, and its rows of silver-bright burglarious implements flashed in the electric light. Bradman got to work. The old man slept. . . .


It was a longer job than Bradman had imagined, but it came to an end at last. The heavy door had been swung open long ago. It was the combination for the steel drawers which bothered him. At last they came like magic into his hands, opening as though they ran on velvet—and such an opening! The doctor felt his breath come quickly, as he stared downwards with glistening eyes. No troublesome bonds or shares, but bank notes, sheaves and rows of them, dollar bills in piles inches thick, mille notes of France in packets of fifty, drawer after drawer full. Hammond had told the plain, amazing truth. There wasn't a word of exaggeration anywhere. Currency! There it was, in the notes of three countries! Hoardings as easily handled as the proverbial miser's gold. Bradman felt his eyes grow hot with desire, his fingers itch to commence their final task. . . . Then suddenly every nerve in his body was set shivering by that gruesome, familiar sound. He was back in the hospital—the first man he had ever seen die. God, it had been like that! Raucous, hard, and gasping—the death rattle in an old man's throat! Lazenby had raised himself in the bed. His eyes, fixed upon the intruder, were wide open, full of venomous hatred, of fear, of despair—then the head fell back upon the pillow. The perspiration streamed from Bradman's forehead. He moved closer to the bedside, looking down at the crumpled-up figure. He knew quite well what had killed him—the shock of half waking and seeing his opened safe and exposed treasures. The doctor felt the heart by instinct—but he knew. . . .

His brain worked quickly. There was no doubt but that the old man's death was due to shock. Hammond would have to help him through with that. There was one last office, though, which must be performed and performed quickly. The very expression of hatred and agony lingering in those eyes was in itself an accusation. He leaned forward and stooped down only to find himself once more rigid. There was a slight noise at the door. He turned his head. The handle was slowly being moved backwards and forwards. Now it was gently shaken, a second's silence, then a soft but insistent tapping. Bradman wiped the perspiration once more from his dripping forehead, choked down the horrors and got to work. He emptied drawer after drawer of the safe into his medicine case. He filled it full, filled his pockets, closed the safe. Then, carrying his two bags, he walked to the door and opened it. It was the girl who stood there, calm and unperturbed, but with a dangerous light in her eyes.

"Why have you kept me waiting here?" she demanded.

He paused to clear his throat.

"I am sorry. There is bad news," he told her. "Mr. Lazenby died whilst I was examining him, soon after you left."

"Come back with me, please," she insisted, entering the room.

He followed her to the bedside. She stood looking down at the dead man without a quiver. Then she glanced around and her large, dark eyes took note of many things. She picked up a glass and smelled it.

"Why did you give him this?" she asked. "It is much too powerful for a man with his heart."

"What do you know about it?" he rejoined.

"I was a hospital nurse for some years," she confided dryly. "Wait, please. Don't go away."

She leaned down and, lifting the mattress, touched a button in the wooden foundation. A drawer slid out. She helped herself to a bunch of keys, unfastened the safe, opened the drawers one by one—the drawers swept empty of their treasure.

"You might have saved yourself a great deal of trouble if you'd known of that secret biding place, mightn't you?" she asked, with a curious, half-human gleam of sarcasm shining in her eyes. "Please come downstairs."

He followed her obediently, anxious only to reach the front door. She divined his purpose, however, and calmly blocked the way. He looked down at her. Was this the psychological moment? Unless he committed another and a very risky crime, he was in her hands. Better to bargain perhaps. Besides, there was something in that cold, sweet smile, the almost insolent uplifting of the eyes, which stirred him queerly. Better to bargain.

"I wish to talk to you for a few minutes," she said. "Please come into my sitting room."

He followed her but he ventured upon a faint protest.

"There are things which must be done at once," he pointed out. "A nurse—"

"All those things will be attended to in due course," she interrupted. "Sit down, please."

He obeyed, wondering whether it was by chance that she seated herself by the side of the telephone. Even in those few moments of suspense, he was conscious of a different atmosphere in the small, shabbily furnished room. There were some books upon the table, a couple of water colours upon the wall, a few cheap flowers. Everything was spotlessly clean.

"Listen carefully," she begged. "I have looked after this old man Lazenby for five years. I left the hospital to come here with him. He has made me do the work of a servant as well as nurse him. He has paid me not even a pittance, but he offered to leave me the whole of his money. I refused. I knew that he had relatives.

"'Leave me half,' I suggested.

"He agreed. Yesterday he asked me to telephone for his lawyer to run through his will. Whilst he slept I read it. He had left me fifty pounds and the whole of the rest of his property went to his nephews and nieces. I also discovered that he had secretly sent a cable to them and that they are even now on their way back from Australia."

"Filthy old beast!" Bradman exclaimed. "What did you do?"

"For a time," she went on, in the same unemotional tone, "I did nothing. I just thought. I reviewed my life during the last five years. I thought out the whole situation. Then I burnt the will. I telephoned to the lawyer not to come until he beard from me again, and I deliberated whether I should kill the old man and take the money, or just walk out of the house and leave him and his money to perish. Quite a problem wasn't it?"

Bradman was incapable of speech. The girl's voice and manner affected him amazingly. His whole being was absorbed in listening.

"When you rang the bell," she went on, "I was going into the gardens to walk for an hour and think. I didn't altogether believe in you, as I felt at the time that you were an impostor. However, I let you in and I went."

He leaned suddenly forward.

"And what decision did you arrive at?" he enquired.

"To kill the old man and take the money," she answered coolly. "When I returned, found the door of his room locked, and knew that you were still there, I felt that things might be different."

Bradman was a man of many experiences. He had been a brilliant surgeon, a criminal, and a sinner. Life had throbbed fiercely in his veins more than once, but never with the same peculiar virus of excitement.

"What do you propose?" he asked swiftly.

Her eyes searched his face.

"Are you married?" she demanded.

"I am not," he replied. "What of it?"

"A piece of excellent good fortune," she declared. "You will get a special licence to-morrow and marry me on Monday."

"You might tell me your name," he suggested, trying to imitate her coolness.

"Mary Lawson. I am quite a nice person. From the snobbish point of view, I will tell you that I am a doctor's daughter and the niece of a bishop, and, for the side of you which I hope also exists, I will confess that my flirtations have been trivial, that I have never loved or been loved. . . . Our marriage, you see," she went on, "constitutes a partnership. A wife cannot give evidence against her husband. The bottle containing that rather strong draught shall be destroyed. Also the list of the numbers of those bank notes will go on the fire, together with a few other documents. The currency, then, with which you have filled your bags, will be untraceable. The nephews and nieces will find the deeds of some property and a considerable balance in the bank, but nothing else. All that you have in your bags you will keep—our joint property. Do you consent?"

"Who wouldn't?" he gasped, a queer passion underlying his words.

He advanced across the room, leaving the two bags to look after themselves.

"You are going to marry me Monday," he reminded her hoarsely.

She stretched out her arms and her lips seemed to steal unsuspected things from his innermost being. The reflection of his passion flamed in her own pale face. Presently she pushed him away with a laugh like music.

"Don't forget the death certificate, the nurse, or the bags," she reminded him, as he opened the door. "What about Doctor Hammond?"

"He's my friend," Bradman confided.

"Then everything should be quite easy," she said.

Bradman was late when he reached the bar at Flood's Club that night, but Grant was still there, and, as it chanced, alone.

"Well?" he asked.

There was a strange sparkle of excitement about the doctor. He had lost his listless manner. Even his voice sounded more human.

"Sixty thousand pounds in easily changed notes after making a split of twenty," he announced, "a clean bill of risk and a wife."</story>