<story title="THE HILL STREET MURDER" date="1928">
THROUGH the silence outside of the brief hour before dawn, and the silence of the sleeping household, Gregory Dent sat at his desk and wrote. He wrote fiercely, with a spluttering pen, like a man who has burning matter in his brain, of which he must rid himself. In his travel-stained clothes—he had motored without a stop from a northern town—he seemed a little out of place in a study which lacked no possible touch of elegance. It was the study of a wealthy man and a man of taste, a man, too, who loved beautiful things. The two simple bronzes, which were the sole adornments of his writing table, were perfect in outline and workmanship, the pen with which he wrote was of beaten gold—a gift from an Indian nabob; the blotter was bound in silver scroll work which had once decorated the treasure box of a Burmese temple. Grimly and forcefully, the pen spelt out its devastating message. The man in whose strong, blunt fingers it was gripped never hesitated for a word, never paused to reread what he had written. It was the ruin of a once powerful and proud commercial undertaking which he was pronouncing, but ruin which, on the hard facts, was fully deserved. He pursued his task without faltering until its completion. Then, for a brief space of time, he leaned back in his chair with an air of relief; the sense of a task accomplished slackened the muscles of his body and the tenseness of his brain.... Presently he rose, opened a cupboard of lacquer work, brought out whisky and a syphon, helped himself to a drink, took up the pen once more, and signed the sheets he had written. Afterwards he turned over the pages of the telephone directory, found the number he wanted, and raised the receiver from its stand.

"Number 890 Mayfair," he demanded.... "Sir Gregory Dent speaking from Number 17a, Hill Street. Is that Miss Fisher's All Night Typewriting Agency? ... Good. Could you send me a stenographer round at once to Hill Street? She must bring a machine and do half an hour's typing on the premises. And— wait a moment—she can take a taxi and keep it waiting; but stop at the corner of the street, as I don't want to wake my people up.... Right; then I'll expect her in a quarter of an hour,"

He set down the receiver and for the first time read through what he had written. Apparently it met with his approval, for he made no change in any of the sheets. He lit a cigarette and leaned back once more in his comfortably padded chair. Outside, the silence of the passing night was still unbroken. From the far distance came the occasional hoot of a taxi, but in this little corner of Mayfair all was quiet. He rose again to his feet, walked quietly to the door, opened it, and stood for a moment in the hall. He was a large man, clumsily but powerfully built, with harsh features, redeemed to some extent by the softer curves of his mouth. As he listened the faintest of smiles softened out some of the hard lines. On the floor above Angela would be sleeping. Presently, when this self-imposed task was brought to a conclusion, he would steal up the stairs and listen from his dressing room. If by any chance she were awake...

He returned to his seat and presently the sound for which he waited arrived—the sound of a taxi drawing up close at hand and footsteps upon the pavement. He left his place and himself opened the front door. A plainly dressed young woman, in a long dark coat and round turban hat, stood there. He wasted no time in purposeless questions, but, with a little gesture imposing silence, ushered her into the study, and led her to the table.

"There are seven pages here of a very important report," he explained. "I want them typed with two extra copies. Afterwards each copy is to be put into an envelope addressed, the first to Lord Eustace Martinhoe, Chairman of the Dent Financial Trust, 32b, Bishopsgate, E.C.2; the second to Sir Walter Cranley, Bart., 14a, Scuddamore Gardens, S.W.1; and the third to Jacob Houlder, Esq., Secretary to the Dent Financial Trust, also to 32b, Bishopsgate. Have you those addresses all right?"

"Thank you—yes."

He drew several treasury notes from his pocket and laid them upon the table.

"I don't know exactly what your charges are," he continued, "but work at this time of night is worth paying well. I am going to try to keep awake long enough to see you out, but I am very tired, and if I should drop off to sleep, put the letters into the envelopes and deliver them for me. The meeting to which they refer is not held until three o'clock to-morrow afternoon, but I want them to be received several hours beforehand. Can you be sure of delivering them for me by ten o'clock?"

"Yes. I can do that."

"Good. Then if, by any chance, I am asleep when you have finished, don't wake me to sign them. Just put 'Gregory Dent' and sign them per pro in your own name as typist.... Take off your coat if you find the room warm. You had better put your typewriter upon this table. Allow me."

With quick and deft fingers she slipped the machine from its case and laid a little roll of paper by its side. She unfastened her coat but kept it on, and stretched out her hand for the copy which he offered her. She read the first sheet quickly; at the second she paused. Very deliberately she looked around. Gregory Dent had gone back to the cabinet and was searching for another syphon of soda water. Her eyes rested upon him for a moment, filled with a curious, startled expression. One hand was clenched; the nerveless fingers of the other barely retained their grip of the remainder of the copy. At the sound of a movement from him, she recovered herself with an effort. By the time he had found the syphon and turned around, she was reading page three with apparent absorption. When she had come to the end of the manuscript, he noticed her pallor and the fact that her fingers were trembling.

"You look too delicate for this night work," he said, not unkindly. "I'm afraid I have nothing to offer you except whisky and soda. I've just motored up from the country, and if I wake the servants, I shall disturb my wife."

"There is no necessity, thank you," she assured him. "I am not in need of anything. The room was a little warm after the street. I am quite all right."

"You are certain that you can read the copy?"

"Easily."

He moved to the door to be sure that it was closed and dragged a heavy screen in front of it in order to still more effectually deaden the sound. Presently the clicking of the machine commenced. Rapidly and expertly, the typist proceeded with her task. Gregory Dent, his labours over, sank into an easy-chair and closed his eyes. He had spent a strenuous day for a man who had passed middle age. Yet, he reflected, how well it was that he had gone north himself. It showed how little one could trust these ambassadors. There would be trouble to-morrow—trouble and plenty of it—not of his making, though. Besides, there would be the plaudits of all those whose money he had contrived to save. A happy day, on the whole, he decided. His great task accomplished, he would rest. It had been a long winter and it was time he had a holiday. Would Angela care for Monte Carlo, he wondered? An excellent idea, anyhow. Angela loved to gamble. Well, she should gamble to her heart's content. Or, would she prefer Cannes, with its sunny skies, and gaily crowded promenade. He suddenly pictured her upon the Croisette, strolling from the Carlton, arm in arm with him, her little cries of delight as she examined the shop windows and led him gaily inside—a willing victim. Yes, it must be Cannes, he thought drowsily....

Presently, he dozed for a few minutes. The click of the typewriter ceased. He opened his eyes with a queer sense of disquietude and looked into the face of death.


BENSKIN, hardened though he was to the sight of tragedy, gave a little shiver of horror as he leaned down to make his brief examination of the man who, a few hours before, had been so full of life.

"Death," the doctor pointed out in a hushed whisper, "must have been almost instantaneous. You see, he was shot, apparently at close range, by a bullet which went straight through the heart. I doubt whether he had time even to realise what had happened."

Benskin glanced around the room. The sergeant, a policeman, and an awed and trembling butler in the background were its sole remaining occupants.

"Is the body exactly as you found it?" he asked the former.

"The doctor was the first one to touch it, sir," the sergeant assured him.

"Any weapon?"

"Not a sign of one."

"Any one here before you?"

"Only the maid who found the body and the butler. Neither of them came further into the room than the corner of the screen. The butler telephoned at once from the hall, locking up the room. He handed me the key upon my arrival."

"Then he was probably shot from the corner of the screen," Benskin reflected, examining a slight cut in the dead man's head, and a smear of blood upon the leg of an overturned chair. "You are sure that nothing else has been touched, Sergeant?"

"Certain, sir," was the firm reply. "According to the doctor, Sir Gregory must have been dead for a couple of hours, at least, but no one seems to have heard the shot, or to have had any idea that anything had happened. A maid came into the room as usual at about seven o'clock. She rushed away screaming and fetched the butler. It seems that Sir Gregory, who had been up in Manchester on business, was not expected home last night. He must have arrived some time after the household had gone to bed and let himself in with his latchkey."

"Do you know of whom the household consists?"

"Only Lady Dent, so far as I can find out. There are no children and no one staying in the house."

"Has Lady Dent been told yet?"

"Not to my knowledge."

There was a slight fog outside and Benskin switched on the lights. The doctor moved towards the door.

"I shall have to prepare my report," he said. "The body will have to be removed to the mortuary, too, as soon as you have finished your examination. There is nothing more I can do."

He took his leave and then Benskin turned towards the sergeant.

"Is there any one else who sleeps in the front of the house?" he asked.

"Lady Dent's maid. She has been used to sleeping in the dressing-room apparently, when Sir Gregory has been away."

"Go and fetch her."

The sergeant obeyed and presently ushered in a pale-faced, petite Frenchwoman, with fluffy, fair hair and deep-set eyes. Benskin handed her a chair.

"You are Lady Dent's maid, I understand," he said. "Tell me your name."

"Celeste Vignolle, sir," she replied, with a little break in her voice. "I have been her ladyship's maid for two years. Oh, but what a tragedy?"

"Has anyone told her ladyship what has happened?" Benskin enquired.

"Mon Dieu, no!" the girl exclaimed, wringing her hands. "Who would dare?"

"As the doctor has gone, I am afraid I must," Benskin decided. "There is a dressing room, I understand, adjoining her ladyship's bedroom?"

"Certainly, sir. I sleep there when Sir Gregory is away."

"You slept there last night?"

"Yes, sir. Sir Gregory was not expected home."

"You heard nothing?"

"Nothing, Monsieur."

"No shot, or the opening or closing of doors?"

"Nothing at all, sir. I was out myself till midnight. Her ladyship had given me permission."

"Was her ladyship out too?"

"No, sir. I put her to bed before I went out at ten o'clock."

"When you came back, did you enter by the front door?"

"Yes, sir. Her ladyship lent me her latchkey."

"Was there any light in the study then?"

"No, sir."

Benskin reflected for a moment.

"Take me upstairs," he directed. "Tell her ladyship that someone wishes to speak to her and ask her to see me for a moment in the dressing room. And, Mademoiselle."

"Monsieur?"

"I wish to be the first one to tell her of what has happened. You understand? You do not mention the police."

The girl shuddered.

"Is it I who would wish to speak of these things?" she cried. "Her ladyship will be broken-hearted."

She hurried away and Benskin followed her upstairs. From the dressing-room into which she ushered him, he listened. She was apparently obeying orders, for scarcely a sentence was spoken. It was all the more of a shock to Benskin, therefore, when Lady Dent appeared. She was young—she seemed little more, indeed, than a child—with beautiful, deep-set eyes and fragile complexion. She had the air, however, of one already in the throes of mortal terror. She was shivering in every limb and ghastly pale.

"What has happened?" she cried. "Who are you and what do you want?"

"How do you know that anything has happened, Lady Dent?" Benskin asked.

"How do I know—"

She stopped herself suddenly.

"What do you do here? Who are you? What is all this mystery?"

"What time did you go to bed last night, Lady Dent?" Benskin enquired.

"At ten o'clock," she replied. "I had a headache."

"Did you hear any sounds in the night?"

"None."

"Did you expect your husband home?"

"Of course not. He is coming this afternoon, in time for a meeting at three o'clock. Tell me, I insist, who you are and what you want."

"My name is Benskin and I am very sorry to bring you bad news," was the sympathetic rejoinder. "Your husband returned last night and met with an accident. He appears to have been shot."

"An accident!" she cried.

"A serious one, I fear."

"You mean—"

"I mean that he is dead."

The woman threw up her arms, gazed at him for a moment with distended eyes, and sank sobbing upon the bed. Benskin, with a word of sympathy, called for her maid, and made his way downstairs back into the jealously-guarded study. He locked the door on the inside and commenced his search. First of all, he stood for several minutes at the writing table, examining the traces of its recent use. He removed the sheet of blotting paper, and placed it in his pocket, held the ink-pot up to the light, moved once more back to the dead man's side, and, turning his right hand over gently, found a smudge of ink upon his forefinger. The tumbler, with its dregs of whisky and soda, was still there, and a half-burnt cigarette. The telephone book stood open and he made a note of the page. Then he went through the drawers and took possession of some loose sheets of manuscript he found there, which he examined through a pocket microscope. Afterwards he searched the room meticulously, but in vain, for any trace of the missing weapon. Finally he rang the bell for the butler.

"I understand that Sir Gregory was not expected home last night?" he asked.

"He certainly was not, sir," the man replied. "I should have received orders to have waited up, or to have left some things out for him."

"And no one in the house has any idea as to what hour he arrived?"

"No one, sir. The servants' quarters lie rather far back, and we shouldn't hear anything that took place in the front of the house, or in the street."

Benskin nodded.

"The room had better be kept locked up for another hour," he ordered. "The sergeant will stay with you in case anything is wanted, and the doctor will be here again later on. If Lady Dent has any close friends or relatives in the neighbourhood, they had better be sent for,"

"Very good, sir."

He departed and Benskin beckoned to the sergeant who had been waiting in the hall. "It appears that you were quite right, and that Sir Gregory was not expected home last night," he confided. "He arrived unexpectedly, obviously for some special reason. He wrote letters immediately on his arrival and telephoned. Disconnect the other telephone, sergeant, and answer every enquiry yourself from here until I see you again. All messages that come through to the house to be censored. You understand?"

"Quite well, sir," the sergeant assured him.

Benskin gave one last pitying glance at the crumpled-up figure upon the floor—huge, it seemed, in its cumbrous distortion of limb. Then he started out in search of the murderer.


THE young woman who was presently shown into the waiting room of Miss Fisher's Typewriting Agency, in response to Benskin's enquiry, some ten days later, impressed him from the first with her good looks, her composure, and complete self-control.

"You wished to see me?" she asked. "I am Miss Horton."

"I wished to see you," he admitted, handing her a card. "Forgive me for not sending in my name."

She glanced at it and looked across at him with no sign of alarm.

"A detective," she observed. "What do you want with me?"

"I have come to you on somewhat serious business," he replied, "and I should tell you at once that, although if you have nothing to conceal, I should advise you to be frank with me, you are not obliged to answer my questions."

"There is no reason why I shouldn't."

"Then why didn't you come forward at the inquest on Sir Gregory Dent and give your evidence?" he demanded swiftly.

"Why should I? I wasn't summoned. I could tell the police nothing. Sir Gregory was quite all right when I saw him last."

"Nevertheless, you seem to have been the last person who saw him alive," Benskin reminded her. "I am quite sure that you have intelligence enough to know that that makes your evidence important."

She made no reply beyond the merest shrug of the shoulders.

"Any other questions?" she enquired.

"You typed three letters for Sir Gregory Dent that night, the delivery of which would practically have destroyed the chance of your father's firm being included in the Dent Cotton Amalgamation Scheme," Benskin continued. "Not one of those communications reached its destination."

This time her composure was disturbed.

"How can you possibly know what I typed?" she exclaimed, with a little start.

"I will set you a good example," he declared, "by answering your question. I know because I found the original copy, which Sir Gregory had written with his own hand, in one of the drawers of the writing table. I knew he had probably written it that night because his fingers were badly smudged with ink, there was a telephone book open upon his desk, from which I discovered quite easily that he had telephoned for a stenographer to this office, and that you had answered the summons. There were other signs of a typewriter having been used. I discovered that those communications had never been delivered at their destinations, by enquiry in the usual course. The result was that your father's firm—which, if Sir Gregory Dent was not misinformed during his visit north, is in a precarious financial condition—was included in the amalgamation and relieved of its responsibilities."

"You are really quite clever," she admitted. "Any more questions?"

Benskin reflected for a moment.

"Who let you in when you arrived at the house, and what time?"

"About half-past three. Sir Gregory let me in himself. There seemed to be no one else up."

"You saw no one else all the time you were in the house?"

"Not a soul. If I had, I might have thought of coming and giving evidence. As it is, nothing that I could say would have been of any use."

Benskin looked at her steadily.

"I wonder," he suggested, "if it has occurred to you that without Sir Gregory's death it would have been useless for you to have suppressed the delivery of those letters? In other words, Sir Gregory Dent's presence at the meeting the following afternoon would have meant your father's ruin."

"I am not so sure," she replied, after a moment's hesitation. "Sir Gregory was very unfair in his strictures and the other directors might have taken a different view. Of course," she went on, "I can see what you're aiming at. You are suggesting that I murdered Sir Gregory Dent."

"You were, at any rate, the last person known to have been with him," Benskin reminded her, "and, furthermore, you had a motive."

"On the other hand," she objected, "how can you believe it possible that I went there with any such idea in my head? He rang up the typewriting office quite unexpectedly. I never heard of him before. I answered the call because I happened to be the girl on duty."

"A good point," Benskin admitted.

"Besides," she added, "I never fired a pistol off in my life. I shouldn't know what to do with one if I had it."

"Then what was this one doing in your room?" Benskin asked, producing a weapon suddenly from his pocket.

She stared at it transfixed.

"In my room?" she repeated. "I never saw it before."

"Really!" he murmured. "Yet it was found in your apartment at Cranford Court, carefully wrapped up in brown paper and hidden in the bottom of one of your drawers."

"I never saw it before," she insisted.

He replaced it in his pocket.

"Miss Hnrton," he said, "I am going to speak to you very seriously. I repeat that you were the last person known to have seen Sir Gregory Dent alive. You had a sufficient motive for the crime. Sir Gregory was killed by a revolver bullet from a weapon of somewhat peculiar gauge. This weapon, which was found concealed in your room, is of the same gauge.... No—don't speak for a moment, please. You must understand, as a young woman of common sense, that the situation is extremely serious. I should be perfectly justified, in fact, in arresting you at this moment. Is there anything you can tell me, as the representative of the police, which would assist us in tracing the murderer of Sir Gregory? Think over that question, please. I shall ask you no other."

"Nothing," she answered stubbornly.

He took up his hat.

"Then I can only wish you good morning," he said,

"You aren't going to arrest me then?"

"There is no charge against you at present. Good morning."


BENSKIN had his first conference with the Sub-Commissioner that afternoon. When he had concluded his report, the latter looked across the desk at him in surprise.

"But, my dear Benskin," he protested, "surely on that evidence you ought to apply for a warrant against the young woman?"

"I can get it at any moment," Benskin pointed out, "and she is of course under police surveillance. At the same time," he went on earnestly, "forgive me, Major Houlden, if I am even a little over-anxious not to put a person on trial for her life until I am perfectly convinced in my own mind of her guilt. She probably did kill Sir Gregory, and if so, she will have to answer for it. She can't escape, I promise you that—but I once made what I always felt was a moral mistake. I don't want to do that again. I want to be sure."

The Sub-Commissioner was not altogether sympathetic.

"I don't blame you for being careful, Benskin," he admitted, "but you can't bring the kid-glove business into a case of this sort. If there is any other person in the world against whom you can collect as much evidence as you have against this young woman, go and bring him in. A day or two longer won't hurt us. However, in the language of the Scots—I hae ma doots.'"

"And I my fears," Benskin acknowledged.

Benskin, waiting in the lounge of a popular thé dansant restaurant, drew from his pocket the dossier for which he had applied a few mornings before, and read it through carefully:


"HERMYANAS. Of Greek parentage, born in the Argentine. Age, probably thirty-two. Professional dancer in Nice and Monte Carlo, Understood to have left the Riviera on account of money trouble. First engaged at Marabout's Cabaret Club for six months; afterwards opened small but fashionable night club called Lamb's Cabaret. Believed to be the sole proprietor. Financial reputation now excellent. Understood to have woman backer. Nothing against him in this country. Reputation on Riviera indifferent."


He folded up the report and placed it carefully in his pocket. Almost as he did so, the young woman for whom he was waiting entered. In her very smart clothes, and from her generally chic appearance, few people would have taken Celeste for a lady's maid.

"Mademoiselle," Benskin murmured, rising to his feet and confronting her.

She looked at him pleasantly but with no sign of recognition.

"We met," he reminded her, "under somewhat unhappy circumstances."

All the gaiety seemed to fade from her face. She gave a little gasp.

"You are the detective!" she exclaimed.

"No need to be frightened of me," he reassured her. "I am not really very formidable. Are you alone? Might I have a few minutes with you?"

He spoke in French and the sound of her own language seemed to soothe her.

"I am alone," she admitted, "but—you will not speak of that—I cannot bear it. It was all too terrible."

"I have ordered some tea," he said, as he drew his chair confidentially towards her.

"Mademoiselle," he continued, "it is not my wish to disturb you, yet I have a word or two to say about that night. Shall we converse here, or would you rather come to my rooms?"

"But why should you speak of it again?" she asked.

"You forget," he reminded her, "that it has become my business to trace the murderer of Sir Gregory Dent."

"But—how can I help? Why do you speak to me about it?"

He looked at her for a moment as though measuring her powers of resistance. She had, he decided, more nerve than he had at first given her credit for.

"Mademoiselle," he said, "fortunately you were not called at the inquest, so you have made no statement upon oath, but your account of that night's proceedings was not true, and I am going to give you an opportunity of correcting it."

"What do you mean?" she demanded.

"You told me that you went out on the night of Sir Gregory Dent's death and returned about midnight."

"Well?"

"It was not you who went out. It was her ladyship."

Celeste was silent. Benskin continued, after a moment's pause:

"A serious affair like this," he explained gravely, "requires very careful investigation, and you know, in the long run, everything becomes known. Lady Dent, it appears, is passionately fond of dancing, and Sir Gregory, naturally, objected to her visiting night clubs and those places. Whenever there was an opportunity, you changed identities. You are reasonably alike and you wear the same clothes. This arrangement enabled Lady Dent to spend many evenings away from home, when even the servants believed that it was you who were out so late. On that particular night you remained in the dressing room, and it was you who went to bed at ten o'clock. Her ladyship went out. Where? At what time did she return?"

"I can tell you nothing, Monsieur," Celeste declared, and now, although her nerve seemed still unshaken, there was dawning terror in her face.

"You must understand," he went on gently, "that in the end I shall discover everything. You do no good by keeping silent. You only force me to remember that you have made a false statement to the police, which is more or less a criminal offence. Consider, Mademoiselle. You have no one to harm. You have yourself to save."

She toyed nervously with her handkerchief. The music of the jazz band, concealed behind some palms, seemed to be filling the air with mockery.

"Where did her ladyship go and at what time did she return?" Benskin asked again. "Remember you can do her ladyship no good by refusing to answer. You can do yourself a great deal of harm."

"She went to the Lamb's Cabaret Club," Celeste confided slowly. "She returned about two o'clock."

For a single moment the thrill of her words was reflected in his quiet, unemotional face. He was to reach then the desired end.

"The Lamb's Cabaret Club," he repeated—"run, I believe, by a man named Hermyanas whose private address is in Cranford Court?"

"Perhaps," she admitted. "I do not know."

"Her ladyship returned alone?"

"How should I know? I was in bed."

"In bed in the dressing room adjoining the bedroom," Benskin reminded her, with a touch of sternness in his tone. "Isn't it true, Mademoiselle, that Hermyanas returned home with her ladyship?"

She looked up at him piteously. He patted the back of her hand.

"Mademoiselle," he said, "it is painful, I know, but the truth must come out."

"Mr. Hermyanas came back with my mistress just before two," she acknowledged. "It was madness. I told her ladyship so. She would never listen to me. She was folle about him, and he, when milord Sir Gregory was ill—he hung about all the time. He believed if anything happened, she would marry him."

Benskin summoned a waiter and paid for the tea which neither of them had touched. Then he rose to his feet.

"You are a very sensible girl," he said, "and I shall forget that first story of yours. Now you must come with me for a little time."

"You are not going to arrest me?" she cried, horrified. He shook his head.

"Not formally," he assured her. "I shall have to take you somewhere where you can communicate with no one for the next few hours. Afterwards you will be free to go home or wherever you like."


BENSKIN unfolded his napkin, ordered a bottle of wine, and looked around at the furnishing and decoration of London's smallest and most select night club, with interest and admiration.

"Charming!" he murmured to the attentive maître d'hôtel, who stood by his side. "Is it true that Monsieur Hermyanas is the sole proprietor?"

The man shrugged his shoulders.

"One believes so," he admitted.

"He is here to-night?"

"But certainly."

"Will you say that a gentleman would like a word with him as soon as possible."

The maître d'hôtel bowed and departed to execute his mission. Presently a dark, sallow-skinned young man of medium height, dressed with meticulous care, approached the table with a slight swagger.

"You wish to speak to me," he observed condescendingly.

"I do," Benskin assented. "Will you sit down for a moment. The matter is confidential."

Hermyanas fingered his eyeglass.

"This is rather my busy time," he remarked. "If it is anything to do with joining the club—"

"It is not," Benskin interrupted. "I do not, as a rule, frequent night clubs."

Something in his manner must have seemed to the other ominous, for he subsided into the indicated chair with a nervous little gesture. Benskin leaned over towards him.

"Hermyanas," he warned him, "don't try any tricks. I have a warrant in my pocket for your arrest."

There was a livid streak in the young man's face. His fingers gripped at the tablecloth.

"My arrest!" he gasped. "You are joking. I have never broken the laws. We serve no drinks after hours."

"You are arrested on a more serious charge," Benskin told him gravely— "on the charge of murdering Sir Gregory Dent on the morning of the 13th. It is my duty to caution you, Hermyanas, that I am bound to take note of anything you say."

There was no instant fear of speech from Hermyanas, for with a terrified little groan, he collapsed in his chair. When he came to himself, the handcuffs were upon his wrists, and the gallows before his eyes.


THE Sub-Commissioner offered his compliments to Benskin the following morning. There was something in the latter's expression which puzzled him.

"Getting callous, young fellow, aren't you?" he remarked. "I never saw you bring a man to the condemned cell and look really happy about it before."

Benskin smiled thoughtfully. There was a little picture before his eyes—the picture of Hermyanas creeping into a girl's room with a brown paper parcel under his arm.</story>