<story title="The Doubtful Guest" date="1928">
DETECTIVE BENSKIN found the Sub-Commissioner waiting for him impatiently, when, in response to an urgent message, he hurried upstairs to his room. The latter looked up from his desk, pointed to a chair, and, with a sardonic smile, handed across the letter which be had been studying.

"Fellow may be a bloodthirsty brute, all right," he remarked, "but he certainly keeps his sense of humour."

"Matthew!" Benskin exclaimed eagerly.

The other nodded. Benskin smoothed out the double sheet of notepaper, and read:


Ritz Hotel, London. 17th September.
Dear Mr. Sub-Commissioner,
This is to let you and your bright-eyed boy know that I am settling down in London, and so far like it very much. You are giving me better sport than I expected; in fact, up to the present, I am afraid, honours can be considered only even.
I am still puzzled about that Endale Street raid. It was most annoying to lose any portion of the results of one of the most brilliantly planned burglaries of modern times, and also one of my most valuable men. However, the Ellacott jewels are far better than I expected, and those few trifles at Howson's were worth picking up.
I had some idea of paying you a call at Scotland Yard, but I am afraid that I might find your hospitality a little too pressing. I can quite understand your anxiety to meet me, though, and I will give you a chance. Madame la Comtesse de Grignolles—I hope I have her name right—is entertaining some foreign notabilities to-night at her mansion in Grosvenor Square. I propose to be present. It would make matters easier for me if you would leave a card of invitation with the major-domo, in a blank envelope, if you please—I will fill in the name myself. If, however, you do not know Madame la Comtesse well enough to impose so far upon her hospitality, I shall find my way in somehow or other. To catch a glimpse of those wonderful jewels, I would run even greater risks.
Au revoir, Mr. Sub-Commissioner. Of course if I am thoroughly out of luck, we may meet again very soon indeed—you as host and I as guest—but I cling to my star,
Matthew.

"Do you imagine these communications are genuine?" Major Houlden asked, as the detective folded up and returned the letter. The latter nodded.

"I haven't a doubt of it," he replied. "The fellow has just that sort of humour, and at the same time there is a purpose underlying all these jeering letters. He wants to put us off our poise, to make us just a little too eager."

"I shall warn the Comtesse, of course," the Sub-Commissioner observed.

"What shall you say, sir?"

"I shall just tell her," the other explained, "that we have reason to believe that an international jewel thief intends to be present at her reception to-night uninvited."

"Why not go further than that, sir?" Benskin suggested. "Get her to leave a blank card of invitation which we can trace with the major-domo—a small cross at the back, or something of that sort?"

"Not a bad idea." Houlden mused.

"You see," the other went on, "I have a theory of my own about Matthew. I think that he is undoubtedly the most brilliant criminal of modern times—a genius to his finger tips—and, that being so, he is also, naturally, just a little mad. I figure it out that excitement has become an absolute necessity to him, that he is getting madder every day, and that he deliberately plays for and plans tremendous risks. After all, he is only human. Some day he will make the one small mistake. And then...."

Benskin broke off in his sentence. For a man of mild features and speech he was, for those few seconds, unrecognisable. His mouth was set like a trap and there were two deep lines starting from its corners, cutting into his cheek. There was blood-lust in his eyes. The Sub-Commissioner watched him curiously.

"Go quietly about this job, young fellow," he advised kindly. "Remember, as Matthew has pointed out himself, honours are even up till now. It was a great feat to get back a hundred thousand pounds' worth of jewellery, even if we missed Matthew himself. When his time comes, he'll kill a dozen men sooner than be taken alive."

"If he has the chance," Benskin murmured.

"Lady Muriel will have a card for the reception, of course, and I shall get one for you," Houlden went on. "Are there any other arrangements you would like to make?"

"I should like two of our men in the hall, wearing Madame de Grignolles' livery," Benskin begged, "and I should like two or three more in plain clothes mixed up with the ordinary police who will be on duty outside. If by any chance we are able to track him down, the getting away from Grosvenor Square ought not to be too easy, even for Matthew."

The Sub-Commissioner nodded.

"Give your own orders to the inspector, Benskin," he agreed. "And good luck!"


THE reception at Number 12a Grosvenor Square was long talked about amongst those who were fortunate enough to be present. The whole of the stately hall, the great staircase leading to the first floor, and the reception rooms, wherever space was to be found, were banked with marvellous roses, to procure which every corner of England and Southern Europe had been searched. The greater part of the new Russian Ballet, then at the height of its success, had been engaged, and the two most famous opera singers of the day had risked the breaking of a contract to be present. Royalty had expressed its deep regret at being able to pay only a flying visit on a night of many engagements, but towards the hour when the supper rooms were to be opened, rumours of a Lucullan banquet seemed to have brought together a crowd which tried to its utmost capacity one of the largest houses in London.

A little breathless, Benskin and Lady Muriel, who had been dining together at the Ritz Grill, were fortunate enough about halfway through the proceedings to find a couple of chairs near the door of the main reception room.

"For heaven's sake, tell me what it is all about!" he begged. "First of all, who is the Comtesse de Grignolles?"

"They call her 'The Knight's Lady'," Lady Muriel confided, "because she is always in shining armour. She is supposed to have several million pounds' worth of jewels—all diamonds."

"How did she come by them?"

"The usual way," his companion explained, with perhaps just a shade of bitterness in her tone. "Her father was an American—an oil, or railway king, or something of the sort. She met her husband in Paris—bought him for the amount of his debts and half a million—and he died, crushed, within a year or two. She owns the ancestral château at Grignolles, where she spends a few months of every year, and that, I understand, is how she became acquainted with the guest of the evening. His chateau is the adjoining one, the other side of Grignolles."

"Tell me about him."

"Ah, now you come to some one really distinguished. I only know a few of his titles, but Monsieur le Général, Duc d'Angoulême and Saint Creux is the only one of the real aristocracy of France who made a great name during the War. He was a very brilliant leader and tactician, and, but for his birth, they say that he would have received a far greater share of the credit for the saving of Paris and Verdun than he did. However, he has nearly all the honours possible. I am not at all sure that he isn't a Marshal of France, and, though he retired from active service as soon as the War was over, his name is still one to conjure with. ... I believe they're going in to supper! Look, isn't it rather like a royal procession? These parvenu women turn everything into a circus."

The great crowd was dividing to make an avenue down which a double file of people were crossing the floor towards the banqueting rooms, where a famous band was playing. The Comtesse, her fingers upon the sleeve of her distinguished guest, and diamonds which had graced the occupant of a throne glittering upon her neck and bosom, stopped every now and then to speak to a friend. She was a woman of medium height, fair, not without a certain presence, but lacking altogether the naturalness and grand air which would have enabled her to pass with dignity through such an assembly. As she drew near to them, she recognised Lady Muriel, and paused.

"Lady Muriel," she gushed, "I haven't seen you before, have I? I'm afraid you weren't able to get near us in the reception rooms. I know you would like to meet my neighbour. Duc, this is Lady Muriel Carter—Général, le Duc d'Angoulême."

The Duc acknowledged the introduction with a lack of enthusiasm for which a thousand similar exploits during the evening were certainly some excuse. He seemed a great deal older than either of them had expected. His face was deeply lined and his expression one of hopeless boredom. At Lady Muriel's few murmured words in perfect French, however, he relaxed very slightly and answered her in the same language.

"Enchanté, Lady Muriel!" he murmured. "I have met connections of yours at your Embassy. This is what my neighbour, the Comtesse calls 'meeting a few friends'!" he added, with a wave of the hand—an almost pathetic gesture.

His hostess laughed as she drew him away.

"Ah, but Duc," she reminded him, "think what a quiet life we lead at Grignolles."

Lady Muriel and her companion resumed their seats. The latter's eyes still followed the disappearing figure of the Comtesse.

"That woman," he declared tersely, "ought to be locked up. You know better than I do, Lady Muriel, but are those diamonds all real?"

"Absolutely," she assured him. "It is her boast that she has never owned a single article of artificial jewellery in her life and I believe that it is the truth, too. Last year she had a wonderful necklace stolen at Cannes. She didn't mind. She was wearing a more gorgeous one still the next night. The single diamond she has around her neck—'The Tear Drop' they call it—really did belong to the Czarina. She is supposed to have given three hundred thousand pounds for it."

"Seems to me," he remarked, "that I had better set about looking for Matthew."

"Oh, do let's have some supper first," she begged. "You're just as likely to find yourself seated next to him as to come across him wandering about. Look, the ordinary people like us are all going in now by the other entrance."

They rose to their feet, but were accosted almost at once by a footman who had made his way through the throng with difficulty. His bow was a little awkward. He spoke in an undertone.

"A guest has just arrived," he announced, "who asked whether a blank card of invitation had been left for him. He was given one by the major-domo."

Benskin's face lit up with anticipation. He was no longer bored.

"Clever fellow!" he exclaimed. "He waited to arrive until he knew that he wouldn't have to face the introductions."

"Parsons is trying to keep him in sight," the man went on. "I was to tell you that he is tall, with a great deal of dark hair, a single eye-glass, about thirty-four or thirty-five years old, and of slightly foreign or Jewish appearance. He enquired the way into the supper rooms."

"He would," Benskin murmured. "Give orders at the door that he is not allowed to leave until I have seen him. If he makes any attempt to get away, he is to be detained until you can find me. His blank invitation card will be quite sufficient excuse."

The man assented comprehendingly and took his leave. Lady Muriel sighed.

"I'm just as keen as you are," she assured him, "but much greedier. Do you know that they have ortolans stuffed with truffles, vol-au-vents and pâtis which came over by air this afternoon from Strasbourg, and baskets full of real strawberries?"

He smiled.

"On the whole," he said, "it is perhaps as well that the supper room is our obvious destination."

The supper fulfilled every anticipation, but the hour which followed was a little breathless. The rooms were now packed to such an extent that to move more than a yard at a time was difficult. Benskin managed at last, however, to come once more into touch with his friend the pseudo-footman.

"I've scarcely lost sight of him," the latter confided, "until a few minutes ago. He was very near the Comtesse then, but I simply couldn't move. He was between those two pillars when I saw him last. Chalmers is on the other side and Parsons between us. If he comes back this way at all, he'll have to pass one of us."

"You're sure you've fixed it so that he can't get away?"

"Absolutely, sir," the man declared. "We didn't want to run any risks, so I've had more men sent up from the Yard. We have the back entrance guarded, as well as the front, and Brooks is waiting by the side of his hat and coat in the cloak room."

"Good!" Benskin approved. "I'll work my way down there, but I shall have to leave it to you as much as possible. If it's the man we're hoping for, he'd recognise me."

Presently there was a little stir and people began to give way. La Comtesse de Grignolles and her distinguished guest were crossing the floor towards the concert room to hear the world's greatest singer. As they came in sight, Benskin, responding to the eager pressure of Lady Muriel's fingers upon his arm, stood on tiptoe and watched. The Comtesse was still smiling to right and left, still throwing a word here and there to acquaintances, but there was a distinct change in her expression. She seemed to have grown paler and her left hand, flashing with diamonds, was lifted to her throat. As she passed by, Lady Muriel gave a gasp.

"You'd better get downstairs," she whispered. "After all, she's a brave woman. Can't you see what's happened?—and she knows."

He looked at her enquiringly and she leaned a little closer.

"'The Tear Drop' diamond has gone!"


PARSONS was modest but triumphant as he led Benskin by a short cut to the back stairs.

"He was almost too clever for us, after all, sir," he confided. "He wasn't going to bother about his coat and hat. I tracked him down to the hall and Chalmers found him in the library, trying to open the French windows. There's a garden gate out into the mews and a clear exit that way for all he knew. The gate's locked, but I expect he had a key."

"Did he say anything?" Benskin asked quickly.

"He didn't say much, but he was a nasty customer to handle—not much of a fighter, perhaps, but he was as slippery as they make them."

"Where is he now?" Benskin enquired, as they emerged from the crush and hurried down the well staircase.

"In the little waiting-room on the ground floor, where the housekeeper interviews tradespeople. This way, sir. This is the room."

Parsons threw open the door of a plainly but comfortably furnished apartment of the waiting-room type. There were rows of chairs along the wall, a table covered with magazines in the middle of the floor, and other evidences that it was a room in which callers of the business type were received. One plain-clothes policeman was standing just inside the door; another close to the table. Lounging upon the latter, and apparently absorbed in a copy of Punch, was the man answering to Parson's description. There was a slight hook to his nose—otherwise he would have been more than passably good-looking. He wore his clothes correctly, but it was obvious that he was making a great effort to appear at his ease. He looked up coolly as Benskin entered and threw down the copy of Punch.

"Are you the person from whom I may demand an explanation of what has happened to me?" he enquired.

Benskin studied him closely. He was not entirely the type of man he had expected, but Matthew was clever enough to see to that.

"Yes, I suppose I am," he answered. "At any rate, I am responsible for your detention."

"Then perhaps you will explain at once."

"That is what I am here for. You came in without a proper card of invitation and found a blank one waiting for you."

"What the devil concern is that of yours?"

"I am Detective Benskin of Scotland Yard," was the curt reply. "You had better answer my questions. To whom did you apply for that blank card?"

The suspected person appeared to consider the advisability of answering.

"I needn't have had one at all to get in," he temporised. "It was quite easy."

"Nevertheless," Benskin insisted, "to whom did you apply for it?"

He leaned a little forward across the table, studying the other's face. With every moment his satisfaction increased. Eyed at close quarters there was something not quite natural about that black hair; the curve of the lips, too, was unusual.

"I asked the major-domo here to procure me one," the intruder admitted at last. "I had a reason."

"Show it to me," Benskin insisted.

The man made a little grimace, but threw it upon the table. Benskin picked it up and turned it over. On the back, in the left-hand corner, was a small cross.

"What is your name?" Benskin demanded.

"Vandoorn," was the surly reply, after a moment's pause.

"Any one here to identify you?"

"Several. Lord Partington for one."

Benskin whispered in the ear of the man standing near the door, who at once nodded and withdrew.

"You said just now," Benskin went on, turning back again, "that you wished to be present to-night for a certain reason. Was that reason connected in any way—"

"I'm damned if I answer any more questions!" Vandoorn declared, springing to his feet. "Curse you, what are you all on to me for? I've a right to be here, since I'm clever enough to get a card. Let me go!"

"Presently," Benskin replied, "First of all, I am going to search you. Up with them!" he shouted. "Like hell! No good trying that, Vandoorn."

The young man's hand had stolen behind him, but Benskin was quicker. His own automatic was pointed straight across the table. Vandoorn's hands were unwillingly raised.

"Get him by the arms," Benskin directed briefly. "Handcuff him if he's awkward."

For the first time the captured man was losing his composure.

In the grasp of the brawny, plain-clothes policeman he was helpless, but he nevertheless struggled madly.

"I won't be searched," he insisted. "You have no right to do anything of the sort."

"Haven't I? We can argue that later."

With a significant little glance across the table, the policeman drew from his captive's pocket a small automatic and threw it amongst the magazines. Benskin took it up and knocked out the cartridges. A pocketbook followed, and suddenly, in the midst of a paroxysm of struggles, the searcher, a little out of breath, produced a fragment of platinum chain to which was attached a marvellously shaped gem. It lay there sparkling in the light—immense, astounding, a single diamond in the shape of a huge teardrop.

"So that's that!" Benskin remarked calmly. "How did you manage it, my friend?"

"I didn't manage it at all," was the muttered reply. "It's my own property."

The plain-clothes policeman laughed and even Benskin smiled. The man who had called himself Vandoorn looked as though he could have killed both of them. Then there was a knock at the door. Benskin covered the jewel with his handkerchief.

"Come in," he directed shortly.

The Comtesse de Grignolles entered, followed by a short, fair-haired man who looked around enquiringly.

"My name's Partington," he announced. "What's the trouble here?"

"May I ask whether you recognise this man?" Benskin asked.

Lord Partington screwed in his eyeglass and nodded.

"Why," he said, "it's old Vandoorn's son, isn't it?"

"That's right, sir," the person addressed assented, glancing defiantly at Benskin. "I don't know what the trouble is. They tried to stop my leaving the house, searched me, and now they're calling me a thief.''

"You might mention," Benskin intervened, "that you were here with a bogus card of invitation, that you were endeavouring to leave the house by the window, and that when we searched you we discovered, first of all a fully charged automatic, and secondly, this!"

He lifted the handkerchief. The Comtesse gave a little cry and sprang forward. She was about to grasp the jewel. Suddenly she stopped and stared at it transfixed.

"What does this mean?" she demanded, looking at Benskin,

The man Vandoorn broke in eagerly, and even in that moment of trouble Benskin was swift to notice the change from the cynical voice of the Gentile to the natural guttural of the Jew.

"I can tell you all about it, lady. These men from Scotland Yard got it into their heads that I'm a jewel thief and that I was here to steal your ladyship's 'Tear Drop.' Now, my lord, stand by me—what's my job? What's my father's job?"

"Vandoorns," Lord Partington confided, "are perhaps the most expert manufacturers of high-class imitation jewellery in the world."

"That's right," the young man declared eagerly. "We are. We've got an order—I can't tell you from whom—we don't disclose our clients' names—but we've got an order to imitate the Comtesse de Grignolles' famous 'Tear Drop,' 'Alexandra's Tear Drop' it's called in the trade. Well, there it is, on the table. We've done the job, but dad wasn't quite satisfied. He told me to get a card for this show to-night and to come and have a look at the real thing as close as I could. We daren't ask the Comtesse to oblige us, because naturally she wouldn't want it copied, but I knew the steward here and I got him to leave me a card. That's why I came. I saw the 'Tear Drop' close to, earlier in the evening, and I found out where we ain't quite right. That's all about me, and here's the whole of Scotland Yard jumped on my neck. If the 'Tear Drop's' been stolen, that ain't nothing to do with me. We aren't thieves and don't need to be. Go and ask our bankers, if you don't believe me. Dad's worth fifty thou, if he's worth sixpence."

There was a moment's silence. Benskin found it hard to collect his thoughts. Somewhere there was trickery—but where?

"Why do you carry that thing?" he asked, pointing to the automatic.

"Ask your grandmother," was the angry rejoinder. "You don't suppose we don't have to handle plenty of the real stuff too! The gems we copy have to be done from the original. There isn't one of us in the business who don't carry a gun."

There was a knock at the door. The major-domo of the household entered. He carried a telegram upon a salver.

"My lady," he said, presenting it to the Comtesse, "your secretary opened this and thought that perhaps you ought to see it at once."

The Comtesse picked it up. As she read, her eyes grew wide with surprise.

"Can any one tell me what this means?" she enquired, and read it aloud:


GRIGNOLLES, SEPTEMBER 17TH. DEEPLY REGRET IMPORTANT AFFAIRS PREVENT MY LEAVING AS HOPED THIS WEEK. WILL PAY MY RESPECTS WHEN NEXT IN LONDON. —D'ANGOULÊME.

Everyone looked at everyone else in mute stupefaction. Benskin, however, was already three parts of the way towards the solution. He stood by the Comtesse and his blue eyes were insistent.

"Madame," he demanded, "how well did you know the Duc d'Angoulême before this evening?"

The Comtesse palpably hesitated.

"We are neighbours at Grignolles," she faltered. "We have exchanged visits."

"To what extent? Have you ever been in the same room with him before?"

"Not exactly. When I returned his visit, I saw him walking in the garden."

"You were surprised, then," Benskin went on mercilessly, "when he proposed this visit to you?"

"I was rather," the Comtesse admitted.

Benskin swung round to the major-domo.

"Is Monsieur le Duc still upstairs?" he asked.

"Monsieur le Duc has charged me with his excuses to your ladyship," the major-domo announced, turning to the Comtesse. "He complained of fatigue and indisposition. I took him down the back stairs to avoid the crowd and found him a taxicab. He went off two minutes ago."

"He was an impostor!" the Comtesse gasped.

"He was an impostor," Benskin acknowledged grimly, "who has gone off with your 'Tear Drop' diamond."

"And you allowed it!" she exclaimed. "You—the police—here all the time—and you allowed it!"

Benskin drew himself up.

"Madame la Comtesse," he said coldly, "you present to all London the Duc d'Angoulême, a distinguished soldier of France—your neighbour—your intimate friend. The police are not seers. We give you credit for knowing the person for whom you design so wonderful an entertainment."

The Comtesse had nothing to say. There was still another silence and Benskin turned towards the door. At that moment, it was his one desire that nobody should see his face. Somewhere in the suburbs, at a comfortable forty miles an hour, with lights blazing down upon a bogus number, and a bogus footman on the box, a huge limousine was rushing into the country. Inside a man with a cigarette in his mouth was calmly changing his clothes, discarding the somewhat conspicuous uniform of a fully decorated general of France for the lounge habiliments of a gentleman of leisure.</story>