<story title="Blemish: The Story of a Titled Murderer" date="1928">
DURING the busy hours of the day, Roden Street, that bottle-necked thoroughfare connecting two of the great arteries of Northern London, is overcrowded with pedestrians and traffic of all descriptions. At three o'clock on this gusty March morning, it was curiously empty. Benskin, overcome on his homeward way with a sudden craving for tobacco, looked hopefully at the single figure approaching, a hopefulness which deepened into satisfaction as he saw that the man who was advancing with long, leisurely strides, was himself smoking. They met almost underneath one of the electric standards.

"I wonder whether I could trouble you for a match?" Benskin asked apologetically.

The newcomer thrust his hand into his pocket, and produced a bejewelled briquet, which he proceeded to coax into flame. Benskin, a close observer at all times of men and their ways, was a little intrigued by this early-morning wanderer. He was a man of dignified presence, pale-faced, with strong yet ascetic features, dressed with a punctilious care which in a younger man might have approached foppishness. His black overcoat, open for the purpose of reaching his pocket, disclosed, as appurtenances of his evening clothes, a white cravat, tied with almost meticulous care, pearl studs, not too large but exquisitely chosen—his patent shoes and silk hat betrayed the assiduous attentions of the perfect valet. Yet there was one strange defect in his toilette at which the man who was now lighting his cigarette glanced with surprised interest. Between the second and third studs there was a small stain, which, to the latter's experienced eye, was undoubtedly the stain of a spot of blood.

Benskin blew out the light from the briquet and returned it with a word of thanks; its owner replaced it, buttoned up his coat, and passed on with a brief "good-night." For a single second, as the two men were parting, they exchanged more or less inquisitive glances. In the grey eyes of the stranger there was no expression save that of the idlest curiosity. Benskin himself, however, was conscious of some other feeling—partly professional without a doubt, inspired in some measure by that peculiar blemish in the man's otherwise impeccable appearance. It seemed impossible that he should have passed the evening, at whatever function he had been attending, with that disfiguring spot of blood upon his shirt. His cool, unhurried demeanour betrayed no sign of having been led into any kind of adventure. Yet the conviction that there was history of some sort connected with that ominous stain remained with Benskin long after he had watched this early morning wanderer vanish into the pool of grey twilight at the end of the street.


BROOKS, the East End detective, and Benskin's coadjutor on many occasions, looked up from his pipe with a smile of satisfaction when the latter walked into his room at Scotland Yard on the following morning.

"Well, we've got Eddie Huggins at last," he announced—"or rather we shall have, within an hour—and got him for keeps this time too."

"The Holme Street murder!" Benskin exclaimed. "I read about it in the tube, and it struck me at once that that was where the woman lived whom he's been in trouble about before."

"Same woman," Brooks assented cheerfully. "He's been living with her, or on her, for the last two years. He's done three months for assaulting her once, and six weeks another time, but she always seemed to take him back again. This morning she was found dead, with Eddie's knife in her heart. I'm going around to the police station now to see him brought in."

"I'll come along, if you don't mind," Benskin suggested. "I've nothing on this morning."

They took an official car to the Clerkenwell Road Police Station. Benskin was at that time only mildly interested. It seemed to him to be one of those cases in which a notorious criminal had at last delivered himself into the hands of justice.

"Did he stay on in the house?" he enquired.

"No, but he was seen coming out early this morning. We telephoned down to the public house where he has a room. He got in at four o'clock, very drunk, and was still asleep. I've sent a couple of good men to fetch him. He'll be here in a few minutes."

The charge room at the police station was empty of misdemeanants, but there was an air of expectancy amongst the few policemen who were loitering about and the sergeant at his desk. They were in the act of exchanging amenities with the latter when there was the sound of a commotion outside, and a tall, heavily built man, bare-headed, handcuffed and blaspheming volubly, was almost dragged into the place. He glared around at them all as the door was finally closed behind him—a ferocious figure, with red, murderous eyes, masses of unkempt black hair, unshaven, and with every appearance of having slept in the disreputable clothes he was wearing.

"You've planted this on me, you b——!" he shouted, as the sergeant motioned for him to be brought forward. "You always meant getting me, you b——y tec!" he added, making a desperate effort to reach Brooks. "You'll get into trouble over this, though. I'm not going to swing for nothing."

"Better hold your tongue," Brooks advised him. "The sergeant will read over the charge to you."

The latter did as he was invited and signed the sheet.

"Take him to Number 7," he ordered.

The man looked despairingly around. For the moment, his truculence had departed. The dawn of a terrible fear was in his eyes.

"Look here," he said, "you've brought me in before and I've made no fuss about it. I knocked her out a few months ago and I'm not denying that I've done it before, but as to killing her—Gawd, I was never fool enough for that!"

"Keep your mouth shut," the sergeant admonished. "There'll be time enough for you to talk, if you're fool enough to do it, when you're brought up before the beak or at the inquest. You'd better send for your lawyer, anyway. Whom do you want? Pussy Grimes?"

"Yes," the man answered sullenly. "You send for Grimes and look sharp about it. You've planted this on me, all of you," he added, struggling to shake his handcuffed fist. "You wait—blast you!"

He was led off, once more blaspheming. They could hear the echoes of his surly shouting all the way to the cells.

"Even Pussy Grimes," the sergeant observed from his desk, "will have to perform a miracle this time. Ed's just had cunning enough to stop before, but it was the odd glass of whisky that did it."

Benskin and Brooks re-entered their car and, at the latter's suggestion, drove to the scene of the murder—a dreary-looking building in a street a little south of the Marylebone Road. There was a curious crowd standing outside and a policeman at the door.

"Is the inspector still upstairs?" Brooks enquired.

The man saluted.

"Still there, sir, and the doctor."

They mounted a flight of stairs and pushed open a door on the first landing, also guarded by a policeman. Inside, was an ordinary lodging-house sitting room, furnished tawdrily, but more expensively than the outside of the house might have suggested. There were saddle-backed couches and easy-chairs, a plush carpet, a thick rug, a choice collection of oleographs upon the wall, a sideboard upon which were half a dozen bottles—and, on the hearthrug, something which was covered with a shroud. A doctor, who had been on the point of departure, the inspector and Brooks talked together in a corner. Benskin strolled curiously around the room, here and there touching an ornament, paying attention to everything except the concealed figure. He glanced through some illustrated papers, which had been flung carelessly on to a side table, and thrust one of them into his pocket. Presently, Brooks detached himself from the others.

"Nothing more doing here," he remarked. "Do you want to look at the body?"

Benskin shook his head,

"I've no taste for horrors," he admitted, "and the doctor's evidence is clear enough, I suppose?" Brooks nodded.

"It's Eddie Huggin's knife, all right," he confided. "It's there now—one clean blow. Left his pipe on the table too. They drew the cork of a fresh bottle of whisky," he went on, motioning to the sideboard, "and it's three parts empty, so they must have been pretty well gone. The landlady saw him come in and go out, and heard them scrapping all the afternoon. It's the gallows for Edward Huggins this time."

Benskin nodded indifferently, There were very few on the staff at Scotland Yard who were ignorant of the man's record and fewer still likely to bestow a single sympathetic thought upon him. There was no doubt whatever but that he was a gallows' bird, brought at last to the gallows, where he belonged. Yet there was one slight circumstance which puzzled Benskin. It lingered in his memory hour after hour, so that, later in the day, he decided upon a somewhat unusual course. He left the Yard early and paid a call upon that celebrated and infamous thieves' advocate, commonly known as Pussy Grimes. The latter, whose offices were conveniently situated near Bow Street Police Station, welcoming his unexpected visitor cordially, although with some surprise. He tipped some papers from a cane chair, invited him to be seated, and leaned forward across the table at which he had been writing.

"Well, Mr. Benskin, sir," he said, "when one of you gentlemen comes to see me, I'm naturally curious about it. What can I do for you?"

"Nothing very much, I am afraid," was the doubtful reply. "I suppose I ought to apologise for coming at all. It was just an idea. Things look very bad for your client Huggins."

"So far as I can see at present," Grimes admitted, "he has handed himself over to you gentry in fine style. What's your game? Are you in here to pump me? Surely you don't need to this time?"

"Not in the least," Benskin assured him—"and, as a matter of fact, it isn't my case at all. If I have any object in coming, it is rather for Huggins than against him. Not that the fellow doesn't deserve whatever may be coming to him, but there's just one point of view, Mr. Grimes, that we detectives who have a scrap of conscience must remember."

"You mean—"

"I mean," Benskin explained, "that if, by any chance, Eddie Huggins, who was quite capable of this crime, and who, I am quite sure, has already committed it in his mind many a time, happened to be innocent on this particular occasion, the actual criminal would go free."

"Just so," the lawyer agreed, "Now you've started that line of talk, I'll tell you one thing that seems strange to me. You know who I am. You know my reputation," he added, with a smile which was almost a leer.

Benskin looked at him and nodded—a thin, undersized little man, with a sallow face, high cheek bones, narrow black eyes, too deeply inset, unpleasantly prominent teeth, discoloured with smoking, a tangled mass of untidy hair, a tout ensemble which went ill with his black semi-professional attire.

"Yes, I know all about you, Grimes," Benskin acknowledged.

"Well, these fellows look upon me as their friend as a rule," the lawyer continued earnestly. "They're never afraid to tell me the truth. They'll own up to anything as soon as they're sure the door's closed. I got Eddie Huggins off two years ago on that manslaughter charge. Well, he told me the truth before I started to work. If he hadn't, I shouldn't have had the ghost of a chance."

Benskin nodded.

"I understand."

"Well, this time, for some reason or other, he's crazily obstinate. He swears by everything on earth and in heaven that he found the woman dead when he got there. He admits that he threatened to do her in the night before, he admits that they had been scrapping most of the afternoon, he admits that he went there meaning to have another row with her, he admits that he drank three tumblerfuls of whisky before he left the room—says he was knocked silly, seeing her lying there with the knife in her chest. He knows that he put down his pipe and left it on the table. He knows he was seen to leave the house and that he reeled back to bed, when, if he had been anything less than a fool—providing his story is a true one—he would have called in the police, but, even to me, he won't admit that he touched her."

"What about the knife?" Benskin asked.

"His knife, right enough—there's no doubt about that. Swears that he left it there the night before, had it out, and was half inclined to use it. Then they had a drink and made it up, and he threw the knife into the sideboard drawer."

"If he didn't do it," Benskin reflected, "has he any idea or suggestion to make as to who did or might have done? She had other men, I suppose?"

"Yes, she had other men," Grimes assented, "but they're hard to trace—mostly casuals, I should think. Ed has an idea that she got more money from one of them than from any of the others, but he doesn't know anything about him—never seen him near the place."

"I suppose she found Huggins money?"

"Regularly—plenty of it sometimes, too. A beastly case! I told him this morning that, unless he spat out the truth and gave me something to work on, I didn't know where to look for a defence. It didn't move him a jot. He swears that she was lying like that when he entered the room."

"Do you think," Benskin queried, "that he knows anything about her friends which he hasn't disclosed?"

"Not he!" was the scoffing reply. "Ed Huggins would sell his own mother to save his skin. The woman was pretty tight-lipped—must have been."

"You're going to make enquiries about her, I suppose?"

"After a fashion," the lawyer replied, somewhat doubtfully. "So far as one hears, she was just an ordinary woman of the town, with the usual haunts. Something may come out about her, although how it is going to help Huggins, I can't imagine. The trouble is that he's got no money, and even a philanthropic lawyer can't afford to pay for work for nothing," he added, with an unpleasant grin. "I think you've got him this time, all right."

Benskin rose to his feet and nodded his farewell. His right hand was busily engaged, however, at the moment when Grimes extended his own.

"Well, the world will be none the worse place without him," he remarked, as he turned to go.


THE lawyer was right. Certainly this time the law had a firm grip upon Mr. Edward Huggins. The magistrate, at the request of the police, remanded him, with a few curt words. At the coroner's inquest upon the body of Elizabeth Chalders, an unhesitating verdict was brought in of "Wilful Murder" against Edward Huggins, the day of the trial was duly fixed, and, depressed but blaspheming and protesting, Edward Huggins occupied in morbid melancholy what are known as the "State Apartments" in Wandsworth Prison.


ANDREWS, butler in the household of thirty years' standing, noiselessly opened the door of the library at Haddington House, Regent's Park, and presented himself before the desk at which his master was writing.

"A person of the name of Benskin wishes to see you, Sir Frederick," he announced. "I told him that you did not receive visitors without an appointment, but he wished me to say that his business was of some importance."

The man at the desk looked up a little wearily from his papers. He was very handsome in a somewhat cold and severe fashion—a man, apparently, of later middle age, although there was power still in his features, and in his undimmed eyes.

"I see no reason why I should be disturbed by the visit of an unknown person, Andrews," he protested gently. "Tell him to communicate with my secretary—with Mr. Henson—and an appointment can be arranged if advisable."

"Quite so, sir," the mart replied. "I only brought the message, because I understood from the gentleman that he was connected in some way with Scotland Yard and I thought perhaps it might have something to do with the investigations you are making on behalf of the Home Office."

"Scotland Yard," Sir Frederick repeated thoughtfully. "That seems strange, Andrews. Perhaps, under the circumstances, I had better see the gentleman for a moment."

"Very good, sir."

"And don't forget," his master added, "to let the chef know that the Major will be dining here to-night, and Lady Alice, A little engagement dinner I am giving them. Emil had better bear that in mind, in arranging the menu."

Andrews, whose thirty years' service had naturally given him a special position in the household, permitted himself a word of congratulation.

"This will be very good news to all the others, as well as myself, sir," he said. "We've missed the Major being abroad so long, and, if I might be allowed to say so, the one thing we always hoped for, even when they were children, was that some day he and Lady Alice would be married."

"Well, you are going to have your wish," the master assured him, with a smile. "They are to be married, as a matter of fact, in less than a fortnight."

Andrews took his leave, to return, a moment or two later, ushering in Benskin. Sir Frederick leaned back in his comfortably padded chair and waved his visitor to a seat.

"You wished to see me, Mr. Benskin," he said graciously. "What can I do for you?"

Benskin accepted the chair but made no immediate reply, He looked first at the door, as though to make sure that it was closed. Afterwards he glanced back again for a moment thoughtfully at the very distinguished gentleman who had accorded him this interview, and who was now leaning a little towards him in an attitude of courteous attention.

"You can tell me, Sir Frederick, if you care to," he replied, "exactly how you spent the evening and night of Tuesday, March 17th."

If the question came as a shock, the man to whom it was addressed gave little sign of it. For a single moment there seemed a greyer streak in his natural pallor, he had winced slightly, as though with the pain of some evil recollection. These things, however, were momentary. He answered in his usual tone and with scarcely any appreciable delay.

"In the first place," he said, "I delivered a lecture on that night to the British Medical Association."

"A lecture which was over at eleven o'clock," Benskin observed. "Can you tell me exactly your movements between eleven and three?"

"Is this an official visit?" Sir Frederick asked coolly.

"Not entirely. If it had been, I should have been compelled to adopt a different attitude. It has taken me several weeks to get certain facts together upon which I feel that I may have to take steps. There is, however, a chance that the whole fabric of my theories is wrong, there is a chance that you may have a perfect alibi. I thought it better, therefore, to sec you myself before I made use of certain information which has come to my hand."

"May I know precisely what is at the back of your mind?"

"You may. I am seeking the murderer of a woman named Elizabeth Chalders."

Sir Frederick's face seemed for a few moments to be furrowed with thought.

"And what leads you," he enquired, "to imagine that I could be in any way connected with such an affair?"

"The thing which first led me to make enquiries," Benskin confessed, "was a small spot of blood upon your shirt front when you stopped to give me a light in Roden Street, some fifty or a hundred yards from the corner of Holme Street, in which, as you remember, the murder took place. I could scarcely believe that you had delivered a lecture to the British Medical Association or attended any social function with such a disfiguring stain so plainly in evidence. I concluded, therefore, that the accident which was responsible for it had taken place later in the evening and I began to make certain investigations. I did so, I must confess, without the slightest idea that they would lead me into my present very disquieting position."

"Continue, if you please," Sir Frederick begged. "I may or may not be disposed to answer any further questions, but you have at least succeeded in rousing my curiosity."

"I will admit," Benskin continued, "that up to the present I have been unable to connect you directly with the crime. The man who is under arrest was seen to enter and leave the house. Up to now, there has been no question of any other visitor. That, however, may be accounted for by the fact that the landlady of the apartment was herself out until just before Huggins' visit. In that case, as you may see, Huggins' story, however improbable it sounds, might well be true—that someone had been in before him and committed the murder for which he is charged."

"Just so," Sir Frederick assented, "but notwithstanding that unfortunate accident to my shirt front on the night in question, a certain amount of common sense must be used in dealing with an affair of this sort. What possible motive can you imagine as being sufficient to induce me, a man—you will forgive me—of some social standing, a scientist, I might even add a notable figure in the intellectual life of to-day, to murder a woman, who, according to the newspapers, appears to have been little more than a common prostitute. Upon the face of it, it seems to me that you would need very strong evidence—more evidence than that spot of blood upon my shirt—before you could seriously charge me with such an offence."

"With great trouble," Benskin confided, "I have been able to trace the woman's antecedents. The first clue I came across of any account was a very much worn illustrated paper upon her table containing a picture of your son. I afterwards discovered, amongst her effects, an ancient photograph of him."

Sir Frederick received the blow without flinching. Nevertheless, there was a change in the expression of his eyes. He looked across the room now as a man might look at his approaching doom,

"I found the murdered woman's sister after much trouble," Benskin continued. "She is living in a small village near Cambridge and I had to promise that her name should never be mentioned before she would tell me the little she did. It was whilst your son was up at Cambridge that the tragedy began. He felt it to be his duty to marry this woman and he did. They never appear to have lived together, but she has had money from him for the last ten years."

"Whether this is true or not, Mr. Benskin," Sir Frederick argued, "does it enhance very much the probability of your story, considering the manner of the woman's life? A divorce would always have been possible to any one who had become entangled with her."

Benskin shook his head.

"The woman herself," he pointed out, "was a Roman Catholic, and yours, as we all know. Sir Frederick, is one of the oldest Roman Catholic families in the country. Therefore, you see, divorce was out of the question. Your son's life was practically ruined. He went to the colonies, where, I understand, his career has been most distinguished, and, except for four years during the War, he has never returned to this country. A little more than six weeks ago—curiously enough, the day after the Holme Street murder—he received a cable from you telling him to return. He came, I believe. This morning's papers announce his engagement to the young lady to whom he has been attached for so long."

"You are a very intelligent person, Mr. Benskin," Sir Frederick declared.

Benskin shook his head.

"I can scarcely flatter myself to that extent. As is so often the case in the detection of crime, the beginning was a fluke. If I had not stopped to ask you for a light in Roden Street, and noticed the spot of blood upon your shirt, any investigations which I might have been tempted to make would have led nowhere."

Sir Frederick rose from his place at the desk. He walked the length of the room and back again. All the time, Benskin watched him closely. When he returned he threw himself wearily into his chair.

"Your visit is a little inopportune, Mr. Benskin," he said. "Tonight my son and the woman he is now free to marry are dining with me. I am hurrying on the wedding. As soon as that was accomplished, I was going to consider the matter as between this man Huggins and myself. He is what you would call a bad lot, is he not?"

"One of the worst," Benskin admitted.

"He has been in prison several times?"

"At least a dozen. Furthermore, he is strongly suspected of having committed a murder six years ago, and he was tried for manslaughter, and only escaped on a technicality the year before last."

Sir Frederick reached a volume down from a shelf, opened it at a certain page, and, crossing the floor, presented it to Benskin.

"I am not a person given to self-glorification," he said, "but perhaps you might care to glance through my record. I have rendered what many people have been pleased to consider great services to my country and to the cause of science. There arc highly placed personages who must share this opinion, for only last week it was intimated to me that my name would be found in the next list of peerages."

Benskin read the long paragraph with respect, closed the book and handed it back.

"I admit without hesitation," he acknowledged, "that the world would be better without such a man as Huggins. I admit also, Sir Frederick, if you will allow me to say so, that the world owes you a great debt—the world of science and the social world. But there remains the puzzle—what has this to do with justice?"

Sir Frederick shrugged his shoulders very slightly.

"Ethical justice and justice meted out by you hounds of the law," he said gently, "must in some cases be a very different thing. For my own satisfaction, we will reconstruct the whole situation. I have a son—an only son—to whom I am devoted. His whole life is being ruined by a woman without a single redeeming quality—a slut, a prostitute, a person without sense of honour or decency. I visited her that night with the idea of seeing if there was a single spark of better nature in her to which I could appeal. I hoped that she might consent to go to New Zealand or to Australia, and for a certain sum of money permit her death to be advertised. She refused. Her life seems to have been bound up with this vile fellow Huggins. I saw her for what she was—an ugly blot upon the earth, a disease spot such as the surgeon's scalpel retrieves day by day. I made up my mind quite suddenly to kill her. I took a knife from the open drawer in the sideboard and I did it. If that fool Huggins had not blundered in a few minutes after I had left, in all probability no one would ever have been arrested. As it is, what is this man Huggins? A worthless, depraved parasite, who has probably already deserved hanging a dozen times. What was she? A corrupt harlot, poisoning the very atmosphere she breathed. Why should it be accounted murder when such a one as she is removed? Why should my life count on the same plane as his?"

Benskin shook his head a little sadly.

"Sir Frederick," he pointed out, "these are ethical questions for the meditation of the philosopher. I am a servant of the great machinery of the law and it is our duty to see that, so far as our efforts can prevent it, no man innocent of any particular crime should hang for it."

Sir Frederick lit a cigarette and smoked for a moment thoughtfully. From behind the thick curtains came the muffled sounds of traffic in distant thoroughfares, the occasional hooting of a motor horn. Otherwise, the silence of the room was so profound that it became possessed of a certain significance. Then suddenly it was broken in peculiar fashion. There was a faint buzzing from the corner of the apartment, familiar, yet so utterly unexpected that both men were startled. From the loud speaker, whose ebony mouthpiece was turned towards them, came with stereotyped intonation the beginning of the nightly broadcasting announcement:


"London speaking to the British Isles. Weather forecast,"


Both men listened to the gruesome threats of wind and rain in a sort of stupefied silence. Then Sir Frederick rose mechanically to his feet.

"Some one has left the thing turned on," he remarked. "Excuse me."

He moved across the room. Before he could reach the instrument, there was again a little whirring, followed by the same familiar voice:


"The News.

"Edward Huggins, lying in Wandsworth Prison, charged with the murder of Elizabeth Chalders, died this afternoon, in the hospital, of alcoholic poisoning."


Sir Frederick stopped short and gripped at the edge of a bookcase to support himself. Benskin rose to his feet in dazed fashion. Both men were staring at the instrument as though some strange human being had broken dramatically into the situation. Again there was the pause. The voice went on recounting some other happening. Sir Frederick stooped down, touched a switch and there was silence. Then he turned and faced Benskin.

"My God!" he muttered. "You heard?"

Benskin stood there, with his hand to his head. It was as though the echoes of that dramatic announcement were still vibrating in the room:


"Edward Huggins, lying in Wandsworth Prison, charged with the murder of Elizabeth Chalders, died this afternoon, in the hospital, of alcoholic poisoning."


"That," Sir Frederick observed, his voice not altogether steady, "seems to introduce a queer new element of interest into the psychological outlook upon the situation."

Benskin opened his mouth and closed it again. There was a sudden interruption—gay voices and laughter in the hall. The door was thrown unceremoniously open. A tall, bronzed young man, with his arm round a girl's waist, entered. At the sight of Benskin, he paused.

"Sorry, Dad, if we're interrupting you," he apologised. "I had no idea there was any one here. The fact is—"

"We've come an hour too soon," the girl intervened. "Our house is much too small for an engaged couple and Freddie promised to show me some of his trophies."

Sir Frederick smiled sympathetically.

"You must let me introduce my friend, Mr. Benskin," he said. "My son, Major Pinsent—Lady Alice Cranston."

The young man, sunburnt, but otherwise a juvenile edition of his father, stepped forward and shook hands. The girl was pretty in a quiet and thoughtful way. She, too, nodded pleasantly across the room.

"Hope we're not interrupting anything very tremendous," the young man ventured.

Sir Frederick waved them away.

"Don't forget that dinner is at eight," he enjoined.

They took their leave. The two men faced each other once more in the stillness of the empty room. It was not until the sound of the receding footsteps had died away that Benskin answered the question in the other's eyes.

"Sir Frederick," he said, "you have presented me with an ethical dilemma which I shall not attempt to solve. I will only tell you this," he added, smiling faintly across at the older man: "I have known Eddie Huggins for some years, but I should never have believed him capable of such an act of good taste."

"Plain words," Sir Frederick begged.

Benskin threw his notebook into the fire.

"I have never wasted a fortnight's work so cheerfully," he declared.</story>