<story title="THE AMAZING ABDUCTION" date="1928">
THE taxicab drew up at the narrow opening to the mews in which Lady Muriel's quaint abode was situated. Benskin was stricken with a sudden uneasiness and insisted upon walking with her up the little flight of outside steps which led to her front door.

"I wish you didn't live in such an outlandish spot," he observed doubtfully. "Anything might happen to you here."

She laughed up into his face, apparently unconscious of the fact that he was still holding her fingers.

"Well, nothing ever does happen," she confided. "Sometimes I am not sure that I don't wish it would."

Something very nearly happened at that moment, but a chauffeur opened his door at the bottom of the yard and Peter Benskin lost his nerve.

"Until to-morrow," he sighed, as he reluctantly released her fingers and turned away.

Lady Muriel was possessed of such a natural fund of courage and had lived her bachelor existence for so long that she was incapable of nerves, as the term is generally understood. Nevertheless, as she heard Benskin's taxicab drive away and was fitting her key into the lock of her bright green front door, she was conscious of a feeling which she never remembered to have experienced before. The door responded readily to the turning of the key, swung open and back again. The light leaped into being in her tiny hall and there was no sign there of the slightest disturbance. She picked up some letters from the table, turned the handle of her sitting-room door, and entered. Almost simultaneously the lights flashed on and she felt a hand over her mouth, whilst another grasped her outstretched wrist. The fingers over her mouth, as she remembered for long afterwards, were cool and strong, and seemed as though they had been washed in water containing some aromatic perfume. She could do nothing but stare into the face bent down towards her.

"Pardon me," the intruder said gently. "An ungracious manner of introduction, I fear, but it occurred to me that you might be a little alarmed at finding a stranger here and inclined to call out. It would have been a pity to have brought Mr. Benskin back."

"Who are you? What do you want?" she gasped.

"I have a hundred names," he answered, making a slight, easy movement which placed him between her and the door. "A hundred names and a hundred personalities. What shall I call myself to you, Lady Muriel? Why not Matthew?"

The situation was terrifying enough, but for some inexplicable reason she was less afraid now than astonished. He was taller than she had expected. His complexion was pale; his eyes, of a curious, grey-green colour, had haunted her more than once during the last few evenings. His mouth only was too hard to be pleasant, with that Mephistophelian upward curve which yet had its attraction. His iron-grey hair was brushed back from a prominent forehead. His attire subscribed scrupulously to the mode of the moment.

"You—Matthew?" she exclaimed. "Why, you've been at the Florida the last three nights."

"Quite true," he admitted, with a little bow. "The last two, if you will permit me to say so, chiefly for the pleasure of watching you. I do wish you would persuade Benskin to have some dancing lessons, though."

"I don't consider that he needs them," she answered coldly, "I enjoy dancing with him very much. . . . How did you get in here?"

He laughed, as though the question amused him. "I get in where I choose," he told her. "There is no lock in the world which could defy me if the attraction on the other side of the door were sufficient."

She looked at him uneasily. There were times when the hardness seemed to pass from his eyes and reveal strange depths.

"Well," she said, "I think you had better go. I imagine you are not here to rob me. My poor belongings are at your disposal if you want them, but, although I live in a somewhat Bohemian way, I am not used to visitors at this time of night."

"Your belongings are entirely sacred," he assured her. "At the same time, as, under the peculiar circumstances, my opportunities for improving my acquaintance with you might be reckoned scanty, permit me to stay, shall we say, ten minutes? You will sit down, won't you? I am going, if I may, to take a supreme liberty. I shall venture to mix myself a whisky and soda."

She sat down; there seemed to be very little else to do. At the sideboard, where he lingered for a moment, he was between her and the door.

"You are quite welcome to a drink," she conceded, "but I suppose you know that if by chance any one should come near to whom I could appeal—if I could attract the attention of any one down below, for instance, I should give you into custody."

"That," he remonstrated, "would be scarcely playing the game. This is a visit of courtesy, Lady Muriel. I have stretched no Raffles-like hand towards your treasure. I have come because I wished once more to compare your living profile with the profile of my divine picture and to express again my profound admiration for you."

"You have admired many women, haven't you?" she rejoined, angry with herself that her voice was not quite steady. He sighed.

"Alas, yes," he confessed. "Yet lately no one has taken that place in my affections into which you have stepped so easily. There was the Roman lady, of whom you may have heard," he reflected, after a moment's pause. "I did everything man could do for that woman. I even murdered her husband, with whom she was bored to death, and I stole from her aunt, the Princess, the Corriati pearls. And then—she betrayed me. It was the one time of my life in which I have been really in danger. I remember it now. They tracked me down to the bar of the Grand Hotel in Rome—seven of them. I was there alone, but I escaped."

"You always escape!" she exclaimed involuntarily.

"Yes, I always escape," he admitted. "I possess a medieval charm, Lady Muriel. Once I used to fear arrest; now I have no fears. I take what seem to be great risks to others, but they are not risks to me. You will forgive me if I replenish my glass. Perhaps you will allow me to offer you something. Champagne is a wine which I seldom touch and whisky at the night clubs I dread. Besides, drink in a public place is a thing to be avoided by a poor creature like myself against whom everyone's hand is turned."

She rose to her feet and stood beside him.

"Soda water alone, please," she begged. "I am not like you. I have been drinking champagne."

He filled the glass but, instead of giving it to her at once, he suddenly took her hand and drew her a little towards him in an embrace more suggested than actual, supplicating, almost deferential. He looked down into her eyes and she felt a curious, hateful disturbance of the senses. His voice, which had barked out death to innocent men, was insinuatingly tender.

"You are rather wonderful, Lady Muriel," he murmured. "Why don't you leave your dull world, take that one little step across the chasm, and try mine? No one would ever find us where I should take you."

She tried to extricate herself but was miserably ashamed of the feebleness of her effort.

"You must be mad!" she cried. "Don't you realize that I know who you are, that I know of the terrible things you have done, and for which some day or other you will have to pay?"

His smile faded away but his eyes were as tender as ever.

"My dear," he protested, "what have I done so terrible? I have brushed to one side the men who have stood in my way. They know me. If they have courted death, it is not my fault. I am a criminal—granted—but there are many others who hide their crimes and are married in Hanover Square. I am at least not hypocritical and I am a man. Will you come with me, Muriel, or will you wait until I fetch you?"

"I will never come," she declared passionately. "You are mad to imagine that I possibly could. I belong to the other side and always shall. Let me go!"

This time her struggle was a genuine one, but, although his arms seemed still to remain absolutely gentle, his clasp was of steel. Afterwards she could never tell herself how it happened. She only knew that she saw him leaning over her closer and closer and suddenly felt the pressure of his lips upon her eyelids. Then he stood away, and gravely handed her the tumberful of soda water. She was clinging with one hand to the chimney-piece

"You are terrible!" she gasped. "How dare you! Don't you know that the one thing I dream of, the one thing I have worked for, has been your arrest, to bring you to justice?"

He sighed.

"I am afraid it is true," he admitted, "that you have made some efforts in that direction. Still, they haven't been very successful, have they? If you are so keen about it, there is the telephone. Your friend Mr. Benskin is rather fond of ringing up Scotland Yard and ordering detachments of the police about. Why not do it yourself? I sha'n't interfere."

She glanced at the telephone and knew herself powerless to move.

"Please go," she begged. "I think I am becoming hysterical."

"You are not likely to become anything of the sort," he assured her, and again such was the effect of his voice that she felt the weakness passing from her. "You are going to remember when I am gone that, notwithstanding all the stories you have heard of me, my methods are not altogether crude. This is my first call just with a view to breaking the ice. Next time we meet, it may be when I come to fetch you."

"I shall have my rooms watched every night," she told him fiercely. "If you come here, you will walk into a trap."

He looked at her long and earnestly.

"I wonder," he reflected. "You women do strange things. You waste your time with nincompoops like Benskin and you would lure a man who could really show you the way in life which you have lost to his death—and then you would be sorry—yes, I grant you that," he concluded, knocking the ash from his cigarette.

He took up his silk-lined black evening coat and put it on, leisurely adjusted his scarf, and, hat in hand, moved towards the door without making any further attempt to come near her.

"Lady Muriel," he said, "I shall never forget the pleasure of my first call upon you. You are all that I fancied you to be. You resemble even more than I had dared to hope my divine picture. If you ring up Scotland Yard now," he added, with his hand upon the door, "I shall only have a bare ten minutes' start. They will not find me, but that will not be your fault. Au revoir, Lady Muriel."

"Good night," she said weakly. "Please go!"

"Au revoir," he repeated, stooping to pass through the doorway and turning the handle gently behind him.


SOME instinct, the nature of which Lady Muriel declined to admit even to herself, filled her with more or less conscious relief when, finding Benskin out on her arrival at Scotland Yard the next morning, she was obliged to take her story instead to the Sub-Commissioner. He listened to her carefully and when she had finished there was a gleam of unwilling admiration in his eyes.

"What a man!" he muttered.

She leaned back in her chair helplessly. The Sub-Commissioner was thinking.

"The fellow must have his moments," he reflected. "He could have been a great deal more unpleasant with you, for instance, absolutely alone at that time of night in your rooms."

Lady Muriel's cheeks were flushed but she said nothing.

"Then he certainly did let Benskin off down in Norfolk," Major Houlden went on. "The fellow must be uncommonly sure of himself. To think how we've hunted him all these years and there you were alone with him barely a mile away! I'll have a man in your mews for the rest of the week, anyway. It may not do any good but you'll feel more comfortable. And keep in touch. This new development may help. The only time Matthew was ever nearly caught was through an Italian woman in Rome. History might repeat itself."

Lady Muriel shivered a little. There was scarcely the exultation in her features one might have expected.

"I will keep in touch," she promised, as she took her leave.

In Whitehall she walked into Benskin and told him the whole story. Somehow or other, the second recital seemed to matter less. His face became very stern as he listened.

"There's nothing left for me except that post as traffic inspector, Lady Muriel," he declared bitterly.

"Don't be silly!" she enjoined, patting his arm.

"For two nights following," he continued, "we visit the night clubs simply to watch for that one man. Last night he sat at the very next table. He even made a very subtle attempt to flirt with you—oh, yes, I saw him—and all the time he knew that I was Benskin, the Scotland Yard detective, hunting him. I shall ask the Chief to put another man on the job."

"Don't be absurd," she begged. "Remember what the police of every country have said: his genius for disguise is greater than that of any living actor. Here's a man whom the French Chef de Sûreté has told us is far cleverer than Coquelin ever was. It's almost impossible to recognise a person like that."

"Nevertheless," Benskin groaned, "I walked into his arms at that shooting party. I had every opportunity for studying him and I can assure you that even now, when I know the truth, I cannot see the faintest likeness between your admirer of last night and the man who played the host to me—curse him!—at Lesser Widerness. In Norfolk he was just an ordinary country sportsman, with rather a stronger face than most, loose about the mouth, humorous eyes, hearty without being noisy, looking as though he had lived all his life in homespuns, and walked every day with a gun under his arm instead of in his hip pocket. The man last night was a perfect specimen of the aristocratic boulevardier—the rather cynical, immaculately turned-out man-about-town. It's damnable, Lady Muriel! It isn't one man we're after—-it's fifty."

"Don't lose heart, Peter," she insisted, "and listen! I didn't say a word to Major Houlden, but there was something I noticed which might help. It was a small thing, but you might be able to make something of it. Matthew's clothes were the very best of their kind, but I noticed that inside the collar of his overcoat, where the makers name should have been, there was a blank piece of black satin."

"There might be something in that," Benskin reflected.

"There's this much in it," she went on. "I don't believe there are half a dozen tailors in London who could have made an overcoat such as he was wearing, or a dress coat. If you start at the top and work through the list, you ought to be able to find out some one who orders clothes and won't have the maker's name inside."

"I'll start straight away," Benskin promised.

"Good luck to you," she murmured, with a little pat on his arm.

She left him, and with a farewell wave of the hand, swung herself on to an omnibus going westwards. A man who had been watching her from the interior of a large limousine drawn up by the kerb on the opposite side of the way, indulged in a little grimace. He spoke through the silver-mounted tube.

"Follow that omnibus number thirty-one," he directed.


BENSKIN, on paying his third call in the neighbourhood of Savile Row, met with prompt and unexpected success.

"We have several American clients," the manager explained, "who prefer us not to put the name of an English tailor in their clothes. It helps them with the Customs, I believe, but I don't think that any of them would be of interest to you. We have another client with the same peculiarity who has always been rather a mystery to us and with whom I hope very much you are not going to interfere."

"Why not?"

"Because he happens to be now, as he has been for the last ten years, the very best customer we have upon our books."

"You will tell me his name?" Benskin begged.

"I would do so with pleasure, sir," was the polite reply, "but we do not know it."

"Not know it!" Benskin repeated, staring across the table from his comfortable chair, at the manager.

"That may sound extraordinary, sir," the latter continued, "but it's a fact. We have been making clothes of every sort and description for this gentleman, from sporting garments of various kinds to a Court suit, but we have never heard his name. You will wish me, no doubt, to explain the procedure."

"If you please."

"At irregular periods, but, generally speaking, every few months, we receive a telephone message from a firm of fruit brokers—Gonzales and Ardron, of Plumer's Buildings, Riverside Street—a district, I believe, somewhere in the vicinity of the lower wharves. We send one of our best men down there with a variety of patterns and, either in the warehouse, or on one of the steamers moored close to the wharf, our client makes his selection. He usually chooses twenty to twenty-five suits at a time, and gives us a date for trying on, and a rendezvous. Sometimes it is at Cowes, once or twice it has been at Greenwich, occasionally at the warehouse in the City, or the Ritz Hotel here, but our representative has always been met and has never had any occasion to ask for his client by name."

"Can you describe him?"

"I have often asked our man the same question," the manager acknowledged, "and he always seems a little vague about it. From a tailoring point of view, the thing that interests us chiefly is that he has an absolutely perfect figure. His clothes can be made upon a block. There is very seldom an alteration required, and although I have never seen him in my life, I should expect, if I did meet him, to see the best-dressed man in London. Apart from that, I gather that he is clean-shaven, middle-aged, and, although the name of the firm with which he seems to be associated is foreign, he is undoubtedly an Englishman. Now you would probably like to ask the fitter who waits upon him a few questions," the manager concluded, stretching out his hand towards the bell, Benskin stopped him promptly.

"There is nothing more I want to know, thank you," he said, "and I would much rather that you did not mention my visit to the fitter."

The manager seemed a little doubtful.

"He's been with us for thirty years—an absolutely trustworthy fellow."

"If he were a partner in the firm, I should still say the same," Benskin insisted. "The man we are after is capable of giving a ten thousand pound bribe in the same way that we might slip a pound note into a man's hand. I should prefer your not mentioning these enquiries to any one. What I should like to know is if you have any work on hand for your customer at the present moment."

The manager glanced at a memorandum upon his desk.

"As it happens," he confided, "our fitter—Harding, his name is—is taking eleven suits to be tried on down to Riverside Street to-morrow."

There was an ominous glitter in Benskin's eyes.

"At what time?"

"He is to be at Riverside Street at half-past eleven. Our client is the most extraordinarily punctual person. To be five minutes late would be an offence, so I imagine Harding will leave here at about eleven in a taxicab, in case there should be a block in traffic anywhere."

Benskin rose to his feet.

"I am immensely obliged to you, sir," he said. "Your information may be of great value to us."

"I only hope it won't mean that we are going to be robbed of our best client," was the good-humoured rejoinder.


BENSKIN returned to Scotland Yard and recounted to the Sub-Commissioner the result of his mission.

"It sounds promising enough," the latter admitted.

"It does," Benskin agreed, without overmuch enthusiasm.

"What's wrong?"

Benskin drummed lightly with his fingers upon the table. His ingenuous face was clouded; the sparkle had gone from his blue eyes,

"A slight attack of nerves, sir, I expect," he confessed. "We have so often nearly laid our hands upon this fellow. This looks promising enough and yet—"

"You think it's a trap?"

"I think that if this is really another of his hiding places, he'll have a wonderful get-away all provided for."

The Sub-Commissioner smiled.

"I dare say the get-away's there all right," he observed, "but he isn't going to have all the luck all the time. You'd better lie low for the rest of the day, Benskin. I'll send some of our men, who know the neighbourhood, down to Riverside Street and get a plan of the place. Oh, by the by, here's another mysterious letter for you, It came by hand a few minutes ago."

He threw it across the desk—a narrow, violet-tinted envelope, with a typewritten address. Benskin opened it languidly enough, but at the sight of the first few words he was a different man. Forgetful of his superior's presence, he swore blasphemously as he flung the letter upon the table. The Sub-Commissioner picked it up and read:


My dear Benskin,
You really should not allow a young lady of Lady Muriel's charm and position to travel in an omnibus. Anything might happen, you know, in this intriguing city of ours.
Matthew.

"The nerve of the fellow!" Houlden gasped.

Benskin snatched up his hat.

"I've got to make sure that she's all right," he announced. "She was going back to her rooms to change early for luncheon and the reception this afternoon."

The Sub-Commissioner nodded. He tapped the sheet of paper indulgently.

"Sardonic humour this chap seems to have," he observed, "but the rest of it's bluff, of course. Come in and get the news about five."


AT the appointed hour that evening, the Sub-Commissioner sat impatiently awaiting the return of Peter Benskin. He was so completely engrossed with the matter in hand that he did not notice the latter's disturbed demeanour when, punctually as the hour struck, he presented himself.

"Come and sit down, Benskin," he invited. "Here, by the side of me. Brooks has just got back—done his work quite well. There's no doubt that Gonzales and Ardron are a firm of repute. They own two or three steamers, do genuine business, their bank report is A1, and there is nothing against either of the partners. Here's a sketch of the vicinity. You turn off Tooley Street into Riverside Street. Pretty rotten neighbourhood that, of course, and at the end of Riverside Street there are some iron gates, leading out on to a wharf extension where one of the Gonzales steamers is generally docked. These gates are open during the daytime, but can be closed with authority at any moment. Now, on the left, just before you reach these gates, there are some others, leading to ten or twelve warehouses, which face, you see, towards this open space, and the backs of which are within a few yards of the river, from which they are separated by a strip of wharf. The first of these warehouses, and the only one of any consequence, is that of Gonzales and Ardron. They have two cranes, electrically worked, and, as a matter of fact, this afternoon they were busy loading one of their steamers which is moored close to the wharf, ready for a return journey to Barcelona. Speaking generally of the whole neighbourhood and the immediate environment of the wharf, Brooks goes so far as to describe it as a criminal's paradise. There are two empty buildings adjoining the premises of Gonzales and Ardron, with half a dozen exits in each. Beyond this are some filthy tumble-down cottages, which are all owned by the firm of Gonzales. There are back entrances to Merton Street and front entrances leading along an alley into Riverside Street. A very pretty little nest, it might be. There are one or two features of encouragement for us, though."

Benskin nodded, without speaking. He was studying the plan.

"Every morning," the Sub-Commissioner went on, "there is a small crowd of loafers on the quay, in the hope of finding a job, and twenty or thirty more who lounge about in the open space at the back of Gonzales' warehouse. To-morrow that number will be slightly increased. We shall have another half-dozen out on the strip of dock and a few hanging around the ship. Then, safely out of sight, I shall have a strongish force of men occupying at least three of the cottages, and the streets beyond that will be thoroughly patrolled."

"And the plan?"

"The fitter from the tailor will arrive by taxicab with all his parcels, at about eleven-thirty, and until he has turned up there won't be the slightest sign of anything unusual. He will enter the warehouse and as soon as he is safely inside we will pass the signal to the men who are waiting at the different places, and three or four of us will rush the warehouse. Any suggestions?"

"What about the Gonzales staff?" Benskin enquired. "We shall have to take it for granted that they're in the game. How many will there be?"

"Only fourteen. We shall be nearer forty, and directly the shooting begins—if there is any—my outside men will close in. You'll want to go along, I suppose?"

"I don't think there's a living man could keep me away, sir," Benskin replied fiercely.

The Sub-Commissioner glanced up and suddenly realised Benskin's condition.

"What about Lady Muriel?" he asked.

"I've spent the whole afternoon looking for her. She did not return to her rooms, although, when she left, I know that she meant to go straight there. She did not appear at the reception, although they were expecting her, and she had a definite assignment there."

"My God!" Houlden muttered. "You don't think—"

"I'm not allowing myself to think," Benskin interrupted. "They have called the conductor of the bus which she boarded, off duty. I am seeing him at the General Omnibus Company's offices in half an hour."

Major Houlden leaned back in his chair. "It's a queer business, but after all, Benskin," he pointed out, "an abduction at eleven o'clock in the morning from a bus going from Northumberland Avenue to Bond Street isn't possible, is it?"

The telephone bell at his elbow tinkled. He took off the receiver and, after a word or two, passed it to his companion.

"Trunk call for you, Benskin—put through from your room. Sounds like a lady's voice."

Benskin held the receiver to his ear. A torrent of tremulous words assailed him.

"This is Muriel speaking. I can't explain. I've only a few seconds. Widerness—Lesser Widerness Hall. Do you hear? Come now. Oh, quickly—quickly! It's Matthew, and I'm terrified!"

"Where are you?" Benskin asked.

"On the way there. We've had a slight accident. I'm in a chemist's shop. I pretended to faint. Philip, don't delay, please. You'll need some men. The beaters have gone back there. Please—please!"

The voice died away. Houlden, who had been listening in, set down his part of the instrument.

"My God, Benskin! What are we to do now? he exclaimed.

"Stay where we are and look for Matthew in London," was the grim reply. "It was a very good imitation of Lady Muriel's voice, but I'd never believe that Matthew or any one connected with him would let her go into a chemist's shop and stay there long enough to telephone, if they'd once got hold of her. Besides, she happens to know that my name is Peter. I wasn't sure before, but I am now," he added, his voice gaining strength, and the light flashing once more in his eyes. "Matthew will be at Riverside Street to-morrow. If I can't take him, I'll kill him."


AT twenty minutes to twelve precisely, on the following morning, a motor, driven at a considerable speed, turned in at the yard and stopped outside the unimposing entrance to the premises of Messrs. Gonzales and Ardron. Four men, alighting quickly, pushed open the swing door and entered the warehouse. The Sub-Commissioner and Benskin, who were in the van, glanced rapidly around. At a table, set in a corner, with half a dozen oranges before him, was a large, unprepossessing looking man of foreign appearance, dressed in what seemed to be a smock, or blue linen duster, a pair of trousers which failed to meet in the front and left an untidy gap, and yellow boots which apparently had not been cleaned for several days. He had a short tuft of thick beard under his chin and the rest of his face badly needed a shave. He held an orange in one hand and he was talking at a great pace to a small, Jewish-looking person with black, unruly hair, a hooked nose, and a bowler hat worn rakishly on one side. The latter was smoking an unpleasant cigar and listening with a smirk to the other's outpourings.

"I tell you, Isaacs," the large man declared, with only a casual glance at the newcomers, "you make more money out of my fruits than any other you buy. I been to Covent Garden. I see your stall. I see your shop in Regent Street. I know what price you make for my goods. You rob me the money you pay for them. No, sir, nothing doing. You pay my price for this cargo or I come up to the market myself. I take a stall. I take a dozen stalls. I sell all my fruits there. Ninety shillings, and no less."

"Meaning eighty," the little man grinned.

A warehouseman in a leather apron approached the Sub-Commissioner and Benskin, who were lingering upon the threshold, taking stock of their surroundings. He jerked his head towards the table.

"The Guv'nor's engaged with a buyer for a few minutes," he said. "Can I do anything for you?"

Major Houlden looked across at the door, upon which was printed "Office."

"Who is in there?" he enquired.

"The other Guv'nor," the man replied, "but he's engaged just now."

"I'll have a word with him," the Sub-Commissioner decided.

They crossed the room. At the sight of the little procession, Mr. Gonzales broke off in a flow of eloquence and stared at them with his mouth wide open.

"Hi! What are you wanting?" he called out.

No one took any notice. It was Benskin who threw open the door and his hand came out of his pocket with a flash. A tall, athletic-looking man was standing in the middle of an untidy office, partly dressed, and with one arm outstretched. There were clothes hanging upon every possible article of furniture, and an undoubted tailor's assistant was standing back, studying critically the hang of the trousers he was fitting. Both seemed equally startled when they turned around at the opening of the door to look down the ugly barrels of a couple of automatics.

"Put them up! Quick!" Benskin ordered.

The man who was trying on the clothes understood at once and obeyed. The tailor's assistant, as soon as he grasped what was expected of him followed suit eagerly.

"What's the meaning of this?" the former demanded, swinging round. "You needn't worry about that gun. This is an unfinished pair of trousers, with no pockets."

Benskin stepped into the light and looked the speaker in the face. He was clean-shaven, with well-cut but unpleasing features, and a faintly derisive smile. His eyes met Benskin's without flinching.

"I don't understand this business," he said. "What's it all about?"

Benskin studied him closely from the crown of his head to his feet. Then he turned to the tailor's assistant.

"You can put your hands down," he said. "Are you from Platt's, Savile Row?"

"I am, sir," the man replied nervously, "and I'd like to say that I'm not used to firearms and I hate the sight of them."

"No one's going to do you any harm," Benskin assured him. "Answer this question quickly: Is this the gentleman you're used to making clothes for?"

"I never saw him before in my life," the man declared. "The things weren't made for him either, and how we'll get them to fit, I don't know. I arrived here to try on my usual customer and I was told—"

Benskin sprang to the window. From outside came the sound of a siren. The steamer was moving off—already clear of the small pier-head. A man leaning over the side removed a cigar from his mouth and waved his hand. It was Gonzales, a shabby cloth cap on the back of his head, a grin on his broad face. Nevertheless, inspiration came to Benskin, not for the first time in his life—a thought too late. He strode to the door.

"Burton," he called out, "telephone every river police station from here to Greenwich to stop and board steamship Juanita, outward bound. He's done us, sir," he groaned, turning to Houlden.

"Who?"

"Matthew—Gonzales! Blast him!" Benskin cried. "What a make-up and what an infernal nerve!"

Burton rushed out as they hastily clambered into their car.

"No telephones here working, sir," he announced. "All wires cut."

"Get to the nearest call station," the Sub-Commissioner ordered. "Have the inspector lock up the place, and put everyone under surveillance."

Half an hour later, in obedience to a sharp police whistle from a heavily laden barge, the Juanita slowed down just short of the Tower Bridge, a rope ladder was thrown over the side, and four or five policemen, followed by Benskin and the Sub-Commissioner, climbed on board. They came warily, but there was no one who seemed inclined to dispute their progress. A man whom they presumed was the captain jabbered to them in Spanish. The pilot leaned over from the bridge.

"What's wrong, gentlemen?" he called out.

"We're from Scotland Yard." the Sub-Commissioner announced. "We want someone on board."

"What am I to do with the boat?" the pilot demanded.

"Take her back to the wharf where you came from. Can you swing her clear of the bridge?"

The pilot nodded and resumed his place at the wheel. The captain, with a shrug of the shoulders, climbed the steps and joined him. A steward hurried up to the newcomers.

"Where's Mr. Gonzales?" Houlden enquired.

"No English," the man replied.

They pushed him on one side and descended the companion-way, leaving the rest of the men to guard the deck. The first three cabins they found empty. From the fourth Benskin heard a familiar voice and shouted encouragement. The door was locked but they forced it in a few seconds. Lady Muriel was standing there, waiting for them. She held out her hands with a little sob of relief.

"You're all right?" Benskin demanded.

"I'm all right," she answered. "But—Matthew! He is the devil incarnate! I was beginning to feel like that bird in the gilded cage."

She pointed to the canary which was singing lustily in a wonderful little Chinese temple, hanging from the ceiling. They looked further round the room, and understood. The place was a bower of roses. On the sideboard were bowls of peaches and muscatel grapes; a great box of chocolates and half a dozen new novels lay upon the sofa. She pointed almost hysterically to a steamer trunk and a dressing case, both of them marked with her initials.

"My things!" she cried. "I haven't been near home and I have the key in my pocket."

There was the sound of water being churned up as the steamer swung round. Benskin, listening intently, drew his automatic once more from his pocket. The Sub-Commissioner stepped back into the corridor.

"You haven't been home since when?" Benskin asked breathlessly.

"Yesterday morning."

"And since then?"

"You saw me get into the omnibus," she recounted. "Well, it put me down in Bond Street, and just as I stepped on to the pavement an elderly gentleman, looking exactly like a doctor, left his car, spoke to me as though we were old friends, and told me that my cousin, Millie Trotman, who was coming up to see me yesterday and going to the reception with me, had met with a slight accident and was lying in a hospital—could he take me there? Of course I was fool enough to believe him, but after all, why not? I didn't imagine that any one else in the world knew that Millie was coming, and the doctor would have deceived even you. I got into the car, felt a prick on the back of my hand—and woke up here."

"What about Matthew?" Benskin demanded.

"I only saw him for a moment this morning," she replied. "He came in to make his apologies, he said. We should have plenty of time for explanations when we got out to sea!"

Benskin drew a sigh of relief and turned away.

"You won't mind if I hurry off?" he begged. "I must be in it when they take him."

She called him back.

"Take who?"

"Matthew—Gonzales, if you like. We tumbled to his disguise just too late." She shook her head a little pitifully.

"My dear Peter," she expostulated, "you don't really suppose, when he realised that you were coming after him, that he was going to stay on board, do you? We weren't fifty yards away from the wharf when off he went in a small dinghy. They picked him up on another steamer. I couldn't see her name, but I believe he left her too, from the other side, in a motor launch. He could have landed anywhere between here and Greenwich by this time."

The tide had begun to turn. All manner of steamers and craft of different sorts were lumbering down the river. Benskin watched them through the porthole, and there was fury in his heart. So far as one could see, the procession of boats went on.

"And he is there!" he muttered in despair. "He is either in some safe hiding place on shore, or he is on one of them, smiling at us. He's right. We're a pack of idiots. We work like machines till the last moment and then he just slips through our fingers as he pleases. Gonzales! Why, I can hear him now, quarrelling over the price of those oranges. Damn him!"

There was a knock at the door. A young man, wearing the linen jacket of a steward, entered, the Sub-Commissioner at his heels.

"Note for gentleman," the former announced.

Benskin tore open the envelope with a curse still upon his lips.


My dear Benskin,
I have forgiven you a great deal, but this time I am angry. You have spoilt what I know so well would have been the most wonderful episode of my life; you have robbed me of my divine picture, of all my new clothes, and you have prevented my ever going again to the best tailor in the world. Why on earth didn't you play the knight errant and go down to Lesser Widerness Hall?
Keep your gun handy from now on, little man. There's trouble coming.
Matthew.

The Sub-Commissioner read the letter; Lady Muriel read it, with a little shiver; Benskin tore it savagely into pieces. Then Lady Muriel laid a consoling hand upon the shoulders of the two men. She looked towards the door of the cabin, to be sure it was closed, opened a cupboard, drew out a long roll of canvas, and let it fall slowly open, fold by fold.

"The Gainsborough!" Benskin exclaimed.

She nodded gravely.

"He was right about the likeness too, I suppose," she observed. "It is the portrait of my great-great-aunt, Lady Amelia Holcombe."

The two men studied the picture for a moment in silence. The girl's face under the large hat seemed curiously alive. The lips, with their faint mockery, the eyes, with their wistful depths, were both reminiscent of the girl who was holding the canvas.

"Matthew's first present to me," she announced, and again the curve of those pictured lips was reproduced in her own. "He stopped here for one moment when he knew that he had lost and that you were close on his heels. He looked at the picture. I suppose I was a fool but I only wanted to get rid of him—I held it out. He shook his head. 'I never take back presents,' he said. 'Soon we shall be admiring it together.' Then he hurried off and a minute later I heard the boat leave the ship."

"A wonderful gesture!" the Sub-Commissioner murmured.

"At our expense, as usual," Benskin exclaimed bitterly.

Lady Muriel laid her hand upon his arm.

"Please don't be disheartened," she begged. "Remember that what you have done is a great triumph. You have driven him from his most important hiding place. You have made him a fugitive once more, you have rescued me, the victim of an abduction, and you have regained the picture. Surely that isn't a bad morning's work?"

"Lady Muriel is right," the Sub-Commissioner agreed. "The picture is a great find." Benskin smiled at her gratefully.

"All the same," he pointed out, "the triumph is yours, not ours. It was you who gave us the clue which enabled us to track him down through his tailors and it is you who have the picture. We are the mugs who let him go. The whole of the credit really belongs to you."

"Cheer up," Lady Muriel enjoined hopefully. "So far you've had the bad luck and I've had the good. Believe me, the end isn't so far off."

The Sub-Commissioner looked at her with a question in his eyes.

"You have something to tell us?" She nodded mysteriously.

"I know something about Matthew," she confided. "Don't ask me what it is at this moment. Tell me the date."

"The twenty-ninth of October," Benskin replied.

She leaned towards the two men and her voice carried conviction.

"Upon the second of November," she prophesied, "you shall take Matthew."</story>