<story title="THE STUBBORN END" date="1928">
THEIR heads were very close together over the worn leather top of the Sub-Commissioner's desk. Benskin was acutely conscious of the perfume of the great bunch of dark violets Lady Muriel was wearing.

"Here is my bonne-bouche," she announced, laying a sheet of paper upon the table between the two men. "Presently I will explain how it came into my possession."

The letter, which they pored over together, was written on a sheet of business notepaper, stamped at the top:


Gonzales & Ardron,
Fruit Importers & Brokers
Riverside Street Wharves, E.C.3.

The Management, Milan Hotel, W.C.2.
Dear Sirs,
Our Barcelona agents have asked that a small suite may be reserved in the Court on the afternoon of the second of November for their representative, Mr. Paul Gilmott, and another room as near as possible for his secretary, Senor Sacrosta. These gentlemen will arrive at Victoria by the afternoon train from the Continent. Kindly confirm the reservation.
Faithfully yours,
Gonzales & Ardron.

The two men looked up enquiringly.

"That letter," Lady Muriel explained, "was dictated by Matthew early in the morning on the day of the raid. The first thing of which I was conscious when I woke up was the clicking of the typewriter. He was giving letters to a secretary in the next cabin. Then came an alarm. I suppose, as usual, some of his spies brought in news of your doings. He hurried away and the secretary followed him. My door wasn't locked then. I looked out and picked up this sheet of paper in the companionway."

"The second of November!" the Sub-Commissioner exclaimed.

"The second of November!" Benskin echoed excitedly.

"Well, what about it?" Lady Muriel enquired. "Does the date mean anything to you?"

"It does, indeed," Major Houlden acknowledged. "The second of November is the date upon which we have been asked to safeguard the transference of a considerable number of priceless precious stones from Buckingham Palace to the Tower of London."

"Not the Crown Jewels?" Lady Muriel cried.

The Sub-Commissioner shook his head.

"There is a great deal of wonderful jewellery belonging to the Royal Family," he confided, "acquired by them at various times, which is not included in what is historically known as the Crown Jewels. As you are aware, their Majesties are leaving England for three months on November third, and they have expressed a desire that this jewellery should be sent to the Tower for safe-keeping during their absence."

There was a brief but very tense silence. Benskin was drumming upon the table with nervous fingers.

"Even for Matthew," the Sub-Commissioner muttered, "this would be a mad enterprise."

"But the man is mad," Benskin declared harshly. "Everything points to it. Hasn't he announced openly that he is going to bring off one great coup and disappear?"

"He'll disappear all right," Houlden prophesied. "We have proved that he is not so infallible as he thinks. If this is his scheme, he'll disappear between the trapdoors with a rope around his neck."

Lady Muriel shivered.

"But why," she ventured, "should he choose a well-known hotel like the Milan to work from? He has always had such wonderful hiding places."

"Has had," the Sub-Commissioner observed drily. "You must remember that we've wiped out two or three of them. To come boldly to an hotel like the Milan, with his wonderful gift of disguise, is really a stroke of genius. It is just what I should have expected from the man. If he tries to bring off this coup, I shouldn't be surprised to see him attempt it from one of the Royal carriages. The second of November."

He glanced at the calendar upon the wall.

"Four days," he continued thoughtfully.

The telephone bell rang. Houlden spoke for a few minutes and rang off. Then he glanced at the clock.

"That's rather opportune," he remarked. "Lady Muriel, you'll have to excuse us. The Comptroller of the Household at Buckingham Palace wants to see us about making arrangements for the transference of the jewels. Benskin, you'd better come with me."

Lady Muriel rose regretfully to her feet.

"Mine is a hard life," she complained. "I submit to an abduction and go through no end of drudgery for the benefit of the law, and when a really interesting assignment comes along, I'm not even invited. I should love to see those jewels."

Major Houlden smiled as he took down his overcoat from its peg.

"Lady Muriel," he said, "we can't take you to Buckingham Palace with us, but if things go our way this time"—he pointed to the letter still lying upon the table—"you'll be able to buy your country cottage and a couple of hunters."

"Blood money!" she shuddered.

"The best money in the world if it's Matthew blood," the Sub-Commissioner rejoined fervently,


AT precisely a quarter-past three on the afternoon of the second of November, two tall young footmen in the undress Royal livery, superintended by a grey-headed butler, staggered out of one of the seldom-used side entrances of Buckingham Palace and hoisted a small chest, which they had been carrying, into a police van drawn up with its open door a few feet only from the threshold. Three policemen superintended the operation and three more, who were already in the van, helped to draw the chest to the farther end of the vehicle. The constable who had been guarding the door mounted the step, called out to the driver, and the van moved off. As it left the gates of the Palace and turned in to the Mall, two other cars, each containing four plain-clothes policemen, drew up, one in front of it and one behind. A limousine, which had been waiting inside the railings, and in which were seated the Sub-Commissioner and Benskin, with a plain-clothes policeman on the box, joined in the procession. They passed along the Mall, down Northumberland Avenue, and on to the Embankment, the escorting cars drawing so near to the police van that there were only a few feet of space between them all. Many curious glances were thrown at the little cortège, but its progress was absolutely uneventful. In precisely thirty-five minutes, the strongly guarded gates of the Tower were opened to admit it and the van pulled up exactly opposite the main entrance to the building. The policemen emerged, the doors were opened, and, surrounded by a strong escort, the chest was carried inside, along a corridor, and down some steps into the famous strong-room. Here, the Governor himself, with the keys in his hand, was waiting. The Sub-Commissioner saluted.

"Box from Buckingham Palace, Sir Gregory," he announced.

They all stood around, whilst the Governor unlocked a particular section of the amazing series of steel chambers. A door glided noiselessly back, an electric light flamed out, and the chest was pushed home into its resting place. Major Houlden turned to Benskin with a little sigh of relief, mingled perhaps with a shade of regret.

"False alarm, after all, Benskin," he observed.

"It seems so," the latter assented doubtfully.

There was a sharp tinkle from the bell of the house telephone just inside the door. One of the attendants answered it and hurried over to the Governor.

"Will you speak at once, sir?" he begged. "It is a message from Buckingham Palace. You are switched through down here."

Sir Gregory took the receiver. There was a sudden change in his face as he listened.

"Good God!" he exclaimed. "Yes—yes. I'll telephone the result."

He turned back towards the little group. There were two of the Tower guards in the background, four of the plain-clothes men, the Sub-Commissioner, and Benskin. The huge door of the strong room was still open and the recently arrived chest stood in one of the private compartments over which was emblazoned the Royal Arms. The Governor unfastened his coat and from a chain which was interwoven with a belt he drew a thin key.

"Are you going to open the box, sir?" the Sub-Commissioner asked, with a sudden thrill of alarm.

"Instructions from Buckingham Palace," was the breathless reply. "This is a passkey to all the Royal coffers."

He thrust it into the box, turned it twice, juggled with it for a moment, and touched what seemed to be a spring. The lid of the chest flew open. Inside, on the top of the metal tray, were neatly arranged strips of sheet iron. The rest of the box was filled in the same manner. He rose to his feet and pointed downwards with a shaking finger.

"Half a million pounds' worth of jewels stolen under your very nose, Mr. Sub-Commissioner," he cried. "Thank God I have a dozen witnesses that no one approached the chest after it had entered these precincts."

Neither Major Houlden nor Benskin wasted a single minute in incredulous and useless exclamations. They hurried out to their car and a few seconds later were flying along the Embankment.

At Buckingham Palace the guards at every gate were doubled and it was not until the Sub-Commissioner had disclosed their identity that they were allowed to pass. They made at once for the entrance from which the van had started. A detective-sergeant from Scotland Yard was waiting for them and motioned them to follow him up the stairs. At the first turn, a rope had been hastily tied from the banisters to a hook in the wall. From here there were seven steps, and again an abrupt turn upwards. In various positions and angles upon the seven steps were stretched the crumpled-up bodies of three dead men, two of them wearing the Royal undress livery of the Household, and the third a butler's ordinary afternoon clothes.

"Not a thing has been touched, sir," the sergeant announced. "Ten minutes after you left, when I was thinking of removing my men, the alarm came from one of the servants."

"Ten minutes!" Benskin exclaimed, the words flashing from his lips.

"These stairs are very seldom used, sir," the man explained. "Even the two or three rooms on the floor above have an exit on to a different staircase."

The doctor, who had been bending over one of the bodies, stepped underneath the rope and drew himself upright.

"The most horrible affair I ever came across in my life," he confessed. "All three men must have been stabbed almost simultaneously from behind, and in each case the knife reached the heart. Three different knives, all of the same pattern. It's incredible! The whole thing's more like the Middle Ages."

He mopped his forehead.

"They are servants of the Household, I suppose?" Houlden asked the sergeant.

"Two footmen and the butler to the Stewards' Room—been in the Royal service for over thirty years."

The Sub-Commissioner turned to the physician.

"Doctor," he said, "the bodies can be moved to the mortuary, but nothing else must be touched."

Benskin made his rapid appearance from one of the servants' sitting rooms. He drew the Sub-Commissioner on one side.

"A Pink Heather Laundry van," he reported quickly, "was waiting against the side of the house there. I noticed it—in fact, I had a look inside before we started. The driver wore a hat with 'Pink Heather Laundry' across it. I've talked to one of the housekeepers who seems to have been the only person about. These are sort of back stairs, you see—very seldom used. She says that three of the ordinary laundrymen, except that they were wearing long mackintoshes, carried out a basket of laundry, which had been prepared for them, a few seconds after our departure,"

"Where is she?" the Sub-Commissioner asked.

"In this sitting room, sir," Benskin pointed out, leading the way. "She is in a terrible state of shock."

Houlden was in no mood to respect the condition of any one. He pushed his way into the room.

"Madam," he demanded, "you had laundry prepared for the Pink Heather Company to-day?"

"Yes," she acknowledged, "the men called for it just after the police van left."

"The usual men?"

"They seemed so to me, sir. They were wearing the Pink Heather caps. The only odd thing was that, although it wasn't raining, they wore long mackintoshes."

"They took the laundry away?"

"Yes, sir. I saw the van drive off."

"Then what's that?" Benskin asked, pointing to a corner of the room.

She looked across and stared. Then she rose to her feet, readjusting her spectacles.

"Why, I believe—" she faltered.

Benskin flicked aside the rug which covered the hamper and wrenched open the lid.

"The laundry is here," he announced.

The old lady was bewildered.

"I saw the basket carried—"

"Madam," the Sub-Commissioner intervened, "will you be so good as to make no statement, or answer any question. Not a word, mind, about that basket or anything else."

"Not a word," the old lady promised, her voice half choked with sobs.

Houlden had already detached the receiver of the telephone instrument which stood against the wall.

"Exchange," he called. "Listen! This is Scotland Yard speaking from Buckingham Palace. Give me the number of the Pink Heather Laundry Company—urgent! You can disconnect anything necessary. This is official."

In less than twenty seconds a voice was announcing itself as the Pink Heather Laundry Company.

"Scotland Yard speaking," the Sub-Commissioner repeated. "Have you sent to Buckingham Palace to-day for servants' laundry?"

"The car is leaving in five minutes," was the prompt reply. "We received a telephone message to say the things would not be ready before four."

"How many vans have you?"

"Two, but one is at the repairers, out of order."

"And you are certain that the other car has not left?"

"Certain. It is standing in the yard now."

The Sub-Commissioner rang off.

"Matthew at his best," he groaned, turning towards Benskin. "Come along."


A QUARTER of an hour later, the two men were closeted in the Sub-Commissioner's office at Scotland Yard. Houlden was walking restlessly up and down the room. Benskin was hungrily watching the telephone. The whole of the detective system of London was at work from one end of the city to the other.

"Let's hear your reconstruction, Benskin," the Sub-Commissioner demanded, suddenly relapsing into his chair and lighting a cigarette. "I think you're on the right track."

"It's fairly simple, I'm afraid," Benskin acknowledged dolefully. "A perfect revelation of Matthew's methods—thorough from beginning to end, every joint in place. These footmen are pretty well all alike, so there wasn't any trouble about that. The elderly man is a well-known figure and I rather fancy Matthew himself played the butler. They hired or bought a van and had 'Pink Heather Laundry' painted upon it, had suits of clothes made for two footmen and the butler, procured a laundry basket, and drove boldly up to a back entrance. Any servant who might see them round the bottom flight of stairs would naturally suppose that they were bringing in laundry, as they were wearing the Pink Heather caps, and their liveries were entirely covered by long mackintoshes. They left the basket empty, just out of sight of the first turn, waited in the lavatory at the bend for the coming of the three men, dealt with them, threw off their mackintoshes, brought out their bogus box from the laundry basket, handed it gravely over to the police, slipped back again, on with their mackintoshes, and out with the laundry basket containing the chest which they had taken from the three dead men. It must have been an exciting few minutes, because at any time some one might have come down those back stairs and found the three dead bodies. However, they had Matthew's usual luck. Everything went well for them. They hoisted the basket into the Pink Heather van and drove off. Inside the van they probably had a kit bag waiting for the chest. They exchanged their clothes in the van, stuffed the bogus ones into the basket, tied it up again, and got rid of it some way or another. They would have to get rid of the basket because they were probably able to disguise the van by pulling slats down, but if it was searched, the basket would give them away at once. We've two hundred and fifty men in the streets looking for that van and that basket, and every police telephone in London enquiring about it. It's a wonderful coup, but they'll still have to be amazingly clever and amazingly lucky to get away with it."

The telephone bell rang. Benskin took off the receiver.

"Benskin speaking."

"Inspector Hannaford reporting from Victoria Station. A laundry basket has been left at the suburban cloakroom. Opened it according to instructions. Two suits of footman's uniform, a dress coat, black waistcoat and pair of grey trousers were discovered inside."

"Good. Any sign of the van?" Benskin demanded.

"Not so far as we're concerned, sir," was the reply. "We have reason to believe, however, that the three men left the van in Victoria Station."

"Any description?"

"Nothing reliable, sir. A porter brought in the laundry basket, but there's an impression in his mind that there were three men who slipped out of the car, although only one received the ticket for the basket. The one who received the ticket seems to have gone away alone. The other two, he believes, entered the station, but he couldn't identify them. Hold the line, please, sir."

There was a moment's silence. Then the inspector spoke again.

"The van's been found, sir," he announced. "It's standing in Victoria Station, empty. The Pink Heather sign was covered up—a thin slat worked over it with a spring. The porter identifies it, however, as the one the laundry basket came in."

"Good work," Benskin said encouragingly. "Now enquire as to the running of the boat train. See that the exchange holds the line."

There was a few moments' silence. Then the inspector's voice again.

"Boat train a quarter of an hour late, sir."

"Be on the platform," Benskin ordered.

He laid down the receiver. Houlden was perplexed.

"What's that about the boat train?" he enquired. "No one who arrives by it could have had a hand in this job,"

"Quite so," Benskin agreed thoughtfully, "and yet I can't get it out of my mind that something may happen in connection with the arrival of Mr. Gilmott and Senor Sacrosta from the Continent this afternoon."


WITH his coat collar turned up to his chin and his hat pushed over his eyes, Benskin, from the shelter of the bookstall, some distance away from the main platform, watched the thoroughfare devoted to vehicles awaiting the arrival of the Continental train. There were a dozen or more cars and a few taxicabs with their flags down. The report as to their occupants had already been brought to him by Hannaford, who was lounging by the kerb. Suddenly a light flashed into his eyes and he drew a little farther back into the shelter of the bookstall. A car driven by a chauffeur in plain livery had pulled up by the side of the arrival platform. There were two kit bags and a trunk upon the top. Benskin stepped cautiously out of the shelter of the bookstall, raised his hand and dropped it again. A moment later Hannaford was turning over the magazines by his side.

"Two passengers inside," he announced. "One middle-aged, well-dressed—heavy fur coat—good-looking, wearing a monocle, smoking a cigarette; the other, shorter, dark, horn-rimmed spectacles, looks like a foreigner. The first man is reading the evening paper, but the other is looking out of the back window all the time, watching for the train."

Even as they were talking, a taxicab, also with luggage on the roof, drove up the broad-way and took its place behind the car. In response to a glance from Benskin, Hannaford hurried off, only to return a few minutes later, looking distinctly puzzled.

"Queer thing, sir," he reported, "there's a middle-aged gentleman and a small dark man in the taxicab too. They're all muffled up so that one can't see their faces.... Train's coming in, sir."

There was the usual stir upon the crowded platform. Porters were abandoning their listless attitudes and standing to attention. The little groups of people waiting to receive friends changed their positions restlessly. The long train, its engine sobbing, came stealing into the station. Benskin, however, scarcely glanced in its direction, nor did he take any further notice of the car and the waiting taxicab. He strolled along to the automobile which had brought him from Scotland Yard and stepped in, followed by Hannaford.

"Milan Hotel," he directed.


A DISTINGUISHED-LOOKING new arrival, wrapped in a heavy fur coat, leaned over the desk of the reception office in the Milan. Hotel.

"You have rooms for me, I believe," he said, "Mr. Paul Gilmott, and my secretary, Mr. Sacrosta. They were engaged by my London agents."

The clerk smiled courteously.

"Quite right, sir. You have suite Number eighty-nine in the Court, and your secretary Number eighty-five. If you will step across with me, I will show you the rooms."

He lifted the flap and stepped outside. On their progress towards the swing doors, the gentleman who had announced himself as Mr. Paul Gilmott paused and surveyed the crowded lounge with the air of one seeking for a possible acquaintance. His eyes rested for a moment upon the distant corner where Benskin was seated, but without apparently taking particular note of him. Outside, in the courtyard, however, he leaned for a moment through the window of a taxicab which had just driven up. If a word was spoken, it was no more than a word. Afterwards he followed the reception clerk and his secretary into the entrance to the Court. Benskin sprang to his feet and kicked viciously at the leg of a chair near which he was standing.

"Hannaford," he muttered, "I shall never make a detective as long as I live. When the critical time comes, I always do the wrong thing. Quick!"

They crossed the floor to the exit with almost flying footsteps. A taxicab was just turning out of the yard—the taxicab which had drawn up a few minutes before laden with luggage, as though its occupants had meant to descend. Benskin threw himself into the police car which was waiting and gave a word or two of directions to the man upon the box.

"It's all right," he exclaimed, with a little sigh of relief. "Nevertheless, I was a damned fool."

Half an hour later the Sub-Commissioner pushed open the saloon-bar door of a small public house on the outskirts of Bermondsey. Benskin, who was awaiting him, passed a whisky and soda across the oilcloth topped table.

"Well, I'm up to time, but it was pretty strenuous work," the former remarked.

"Have you got the men posted, sir?" Benskin asked.

"Forty of them. Mind you, too, we haven't kept the Gonzales wharf and warehouse under observation all this time without finding out something. There were half a dozen trap-holes there, at least. They are every one blocked by this time, and the river police are out all the way to Gravesend. The Juanita's lying in dock, getting up steam. What brought you on this scent? We want to give the men another five minutes."

"I'll tell you," Benskin explained. "I'm perfectly certain Matthew's original idea was to arrive at the Milan as though he'd come by the boat train and take the rooms which had been engaged for him. What his next move would have been I can't say, but the getting in and out of the big hotels is always easy. With his usual thoroughness he took the most meticulous precautions. Two cars arrived at the Milan, one with the real Matthew, and, I think, Vanderleyde, and the other with the imitation Matthew, who was to arrive first and make sure that the coast was clear. If the first two had reported nothing suspicious, they would have changed places at some convenient time, and the two were so much alike that no one would ever have noticed. Unfortunately I made one of my usual blunders. I wasn't quite out of sight in the lounge and the imitation Matthew must have seen me, although he never gave a sign. He just whispered a word through the window of the taxi and off it went. I followed as far as here. Then, when I knew where they were going, I crept into hiding and telephoned to you."

"This looks like the end of things," Major Houlden said gravely. "We are holding Gilmott and his secretary at the Milan, but there's no doubt as to the real man. He can't get away this time. We've got him cornered, but it means a bad job for some of us."

"We're going through with it," Benskin declared. "He can't kill forty or fifty of us, Major. I'm ready to be one of the first and I'm pretty certain there are plenty of our men who won't funk it. It's not your job, you know, sir. You've got to direct proceedings, but to make arrests doesn't come within your province."

The Sub-Commissioner smiled.

"We'll see," he said. "Ready?"

"Quite," was the eager reply.

They drove almost in silence to Riverside Street and down that dingy thoroughfare to the end. On the left, the gates leading to the warehouses were open, and in the little crowd of loiterers both men recognised familiar faces. The gates opening out on to the wharf, however, were locked. Benskin shook them impatiently. One of the apparent loiterers from the yard hurried up, his hand upon the shoulder of a surly-looking man.

"This is the watchman, sir," he announced. "I found him trying to clear off with the keys in his pocket."

"Open these gates," Major Houlden directed.

The man scowled at him.

"Who might you be, giving me orders?" he demanded. "Them gates lead on to the Gonzales wharf and I've had strict orders to lock them and keep them locked."

"I'm a Sub-Commissioner of Scotland Yard," was the curt reply, "Open these gates without a second's hesitation or you'll find yourself in trouble."

The man obeyed but his expression was still lowering and truculent.

"There'll be trouble enough for all of yer before long," he muttered. "There they go and I hope you'll like what yer find."

A patrol wagon containing half a dozen plainclothes men had pulled up behind the police car. The Sub-Commissioner glanced them over.

"All got your automatics ready?" he asked.

There was a murmur of assent. They were six very grim and determined-looking men.

"Come along then. We're going to board this steamer. It's Matthew we're after. We've got every loophole landwards watched but he got away from us once by the river."

"He won't do it this time, sir," Benskin declared cheerfully, pointing to a long, curiously-shaped boat some thirty or forty yards distant. "That's the Tower Bridge police barge and they've got a forty horse-power Diesel engine."

"This way then," the Sub-Commissioner directed.

They filed out on to the cobbled pavement of the wharf and made their way along towards the side of the steamer. For the time of year and the locality, it was a fairly clear evening. There were a few drifting clouds of mist, but the sky-signs on the opposite side of the river were all plainly visible, as well as the lights from passing boats. The tide was low, and there was very little traffic, although every now and then there was the usual scream of tugs passing underneath the bridge. The Sub-Commissioner, with Benskin by his side, walked along the wharf until they reached about midships of the steamer. There was no gangway plank down and the whole of the deck seemed to be in darkness. The portholes below, however, were all brilliantly illuminated.

"Juanita ahoy!" the Sub-Commissioner hailed.

There was silence for a moment. Then a sailor slouched over from the bows of the vessel. He was an untidy-looking person and he spoke with a strong foreign accent.

"What do you want?" he demanded. "No one allowed on board."

"Throw over the gangway," the Sub-Commissioner ordered sharply. "The police are coming on board."

The head and shoulders of a man suddenly appeared in the companionway. The little group gazed at him breathlessly. He was tall, with dark hair flecked with grey, a clean-shaven face, keen eyes, and with that strange, upward curve of the mouth which Benskin recognised in a moment.

"Visitors!" he observed. "What might be your business?"

"You, Matthew," Houlden answered sternly. "Tell your men to throw across a gangway. We are coming on board."

"All of you?"

"All of us here, and as many more as are necessary. The game's up, Matthew, and let me warn you that you've done enough mischief in this world. It won't do you any good in the end to make our task more difficult."

Matthew made no direct response. He glanced at Benskin.

"My friend Benskin is in at the death, I see," he remarked. "A persistent little devil, for all his blunders. Who's coming after the Crown Jewels?"

"I am, for one," the Sub-Commissioner told him.

"You will find me," Matthew said courteously, "in the end cabin on the port side. I will receive my friend, Mr. Benskin. I warn you that no one else had better attempt to approach me. Throw across a gangway," he ordered, turning towards the sailor who was lingering in the background. "Au revoir, gentlemen."

He disappeared. In a moment or two, a gangway was lowered and they all trooped on to the deck. Houlden laid his hand upon Benskin's arm.

"Look here, Benskin," he said, "you and I know well enough that Matthew means to get you. You're under orders from your superior officer. Burton is going to make the arrest."

Benskin's expression was a study in distress.

"But, Major," he begged—"think, sir! If Matthew really wants me, we know what he will do to any one else. Burton's a married man too. Let me take my chance, sir. I've worked hard enough for it."

The Sub-Commissioner's grip was like a vise upon his shoulder.

He made a sign to Burton and the man stepped forward. He had an automatic in his right hand.

"I'll get him all right, sir," he promised. "End cabin on the port side. I'm to shoot if I must."

"Shoot to save your own life."

The man descended the six steps which led to the long passage. The others crowded round the well-like opening, but Houlden waved them as far back as possible. The passage was lit by two electric overhead bulbs and they could just see Burton stepping quietly but firmly along. When he was within about a dozen paces of the end cabin, the door of it opened, a stream of light flashed out, and Matthew appeared.

"Hands up!" Burton shouted—but too late.

He had no chance to pull the trigger of his own automatic. Matthew had shot upon sight. Burton went spinning round and then collapsed. There was a pent-up murmur of anger from the crouching men upon the stairs.

"Why send me the wrong man?" Matthew drawled. "I'm waiting here for Benskin."

One of the men half raised his automatic but the Sub-Commissioner brushed it on one side.

"We've got to take him alive, if we can," he insisted. "Henshaw."

"Yes, sir."

"Get on to the dock and see if it is possible for him to escape through his porthole."

The man obeyed orders, returning in a very few moments.

"Absolutely impossible, sir," he reported. "A boy couldn't squeeze through. Besides which, there are curved bars."

Major Houlden nodded.

"Well, we've got him sooner or later then," he said. "Poor Burton, I wonder if it's any use—"

"We'll fetch him, sir," Henshaw interrupted. "If he shoots, he shoots."

Two of them crept cautiously along the passage and dragged the prostrate figure to the foot of the steps. Houlden made a brief examination, after which he rose to his feet.

"No good," he pronounced. "He's got it right through the heart, poor fellow. Matthew means to carry to the grave his boast that he never had to shoot twice."

"You'd better let me go now, sir," Benskin begged.

The Sub-Commissioner shook his head.

"Don't you see it would be simply murder?" he pointed out. "Matthew means having you before he's taken. He's always sworn it. You're brave enough, I know, Benskin, but you're no match for him with a gun. He's got the advantage of cover, too. You'd be a dead man before you could get your finger on the trigger."

"Let me try, sir," Henshaw intervened once more. "If I could get as far as Burton did, I might slip into the next cabin and hide for a few minutes. There'd be just a chance then of getting him unawares."

"Not a bad idea," Major Houlden acknowledged. "Try it, Henshaw."

The first part of the scheme succeeded well enough. Henshaw took off his boots on deck, and, moving swiftly and silently, reached the shelter of the next cabin to Matthew's and noiselessly disappeared. There was a brief pause. Once or twice the little group of men—stern and unnaturally pale they seemed in the flickering light—saw the door tremble. Henshaw was evidently on the alert inside, ready the moment Matthew gave any indication of his presence, to spring out.

"It's a great idea," the Sub-Commissioner whispered. "Henshaw is as strong as a lion and quick too. He might get him if he comes out again to parley."

They waited in agonised silence through minutes which seemed like hours. One or two of the crew had appeared and had been standing curiously around, but at the Sub-Commissioner's orders, they had retired below. The deck was deserted, except where the seven men were crouching by the companionway. Suddenly there was the sound of a muffled revolver shot from the cabin into which Henshaw had disappeared. Henshaw himself staggered out a moment later, blood streaming down his face.

"He got me over the partition," he gasped. "I'm in."

He swayed helplessly and collapsed upon the floor. At that moment, the door of the far cabin opened and Matthew stood there in the full light. The foremost of the police, who was a brother-in-law of Henshaw, raised his gun, but again the Sub-Commissioner struck it down.

"Why waste time and your perfectly good policemen like this?" Matthew asked, a little wearily. "You can starve me, perhaps, in a matter of four or five days, or you might get a quick shot in, when I come out, it is true; otherwise, you haven't a chance. I am waiting for Benskin."

Then Benskin committed the first act of insubordination of his official life. He slipped down the stairs before any one could prevent him and he walked along the carpeted way with his automatic in his right hand and a pair of handcuffs in his left.

"I'm coming, Matthew," he called out. "Get your wrists ready."

"Sensible little man," Matthew approved. "Be careful of that gun, though. It might go off the way you're swinging it about. This way, please."

"Benskin, come back," the Sub-Commissioner shouted.

Benskin, however, was suffering from a sudden fit of deafness. It was perhaps in his own mind the moment of his life. He was scarcely conscious of the fact that his feet were touching the ground. He walked without fear or any apparent consciousness of danger and he followed Matthew into the little cabin without hesitation.

"Put up your hands!" he ordered, as soon as he had crossed the threshold.

"All in good time," the other replied good-humouredly, "and for heaven's sake, put your gun away. Your business is to take me alive. You can't shoot me, because you know perfectly well that I could have shot you coming along the passage. Sit down opposite me there," he invited, with a sudden change of tone. "I have something to say to you before we finish."

"I'll stand." Benskin replied firmly. "Get it over quickly."

"I suppose you're wondering," Matthew went on, "why I'm taking this so quietly. I'll tell you. I've never been defeated before, but I recognise defeat when it comes. Either I have been getting less clever lately, or you are more subtle. This time you have outmanoeuvred me, although I thought I had covered every contingency. Excuse me."

His long arm shot out with incredible swiftness. He locked the door before Benskin could stop him.

"A precautionary measure only," he explained. "I don't wish you to communicate with those others, you see, and I don't want one of them stealing down to break into our last few words together. Benskin, do you know what that is?"

He pointed to a brown oak box, with the face of a clock, of the persistent ticking from which Benskin had been conscious since his entrance into the room.

"It looks like a clock."

"It does indeed," Matthew agreed. "It has every appearance of being a clock. Yet, let me assure you that it is nothing of the sort. It is a class of article which has gone out of fashion a good deal, although they were used very effectually for time-explosions during the War. That is the very newest form of infernal machine. Can you see the time by it, Mr. Benskin? The light is a little in my eyes."

"It appears to be ten minutes to six."

"So near the hour!" Matthew murmured. "I had no idea. That little piece of mechanism, Benskin—you can see the wires running down there—has been my plaything for some time. Its presence on board this ship is why I always determined that if at any time I should find myself cornered, it should be here that I would face defeat. It also seemed to me to be a pleasant idea," he went on, "to share my last moments with as many of my persecutors as possible. You see I am not going to kill you and you are not going to kill me, nor are you going to make any use of those very ugly handcuffs. I have been a criminal now for some twenty-two years," he concluded reflectively, "and during all that time no handcuff has ever touched my wrist, no policeman's pudgy fingers have ever rested upon my arm. A good record, Benskin. Forgive me!"

With another movement of amazing swiftness—it seemed that he must have been watching his opportunity all the time—he half sprang across the table, seized his visitor's arm, and wrenched the automatic from his hand. He laid it carefully upon the mantelpiece.

"Forgive me," he begged apologetically—"I know, of course, that you wouldn't shoot me when I myself am unarmed—but it might have occurred to you to wound me, unbolt the door, and warn that nice Sub-Commissioner of yours, whom I should hate to have out of the party. If I was a little rough, I am sorry. I had to be prepared against such a catastrophe."

"Look here," Benskin broke in, "do you mind letting me speak for a moment? I deserve to be blown into pieces for letting you take my gun away like that, but there's no need to rub it in. Listen!"

"I'm all attention," Matthew assured him, "but you will watch the clock, won't you, for we have barely five minutes left."

"Long enough," his companion declared. "What I want to say is this: For the last few months it is I, and I only, who have been on your track. These others knew little about you and cared less. It was I who swore that I was going to bring you to justice. I've given up all my other work for it, thought of nothing else, dreamed of nothing else. It was I who planned to-day's coup."

"Quite your best effort," Matthew murmured.

"Oh, chuck it!" the other insisted angrily. "I am tired of your cheap cynicism. Listen to me. The end of this matter is between us two and us two only. Here I am. I'm not afraid."

He selected a cigarette from a box on the table and lit it with steady fingers.

"You and I will sit opposite one another at this table," he continued, "and hear the clock strike six together. Only—just let me call out one word of warning to the others and have them clear off. There's your crew too."

Matthew shook his head.

"My crew had orders to go off duty at ten minutes to six," he confided. "Didn't you hear them clambering down the gangway just now? Let us sit opposite one another by all means, Mr. Benskin, as we are doing now, but when we hear that clock strike—gracious, only a minute more!—I shall like to feel that our friends up there are getting the surprise of their lives. I could almost smile when I think of your pompous Sub-Commissioner, and as to his plain-clothes policemen, I hate the whole brood. You've never seen the effect of a high-powered bomb, I suppose? There won't be a stick left of the ship, and they won't be able to identify a single one of us. The Buckingham Palace jewels—they are all in that drawer, by the by—will probably descend in a charred shower somewhere about Ludgate Hill."

He sank into the opposite chair. He was nearest the door and Benskin realised with a pang that there was no earthly way of communicating with the men on the stairs. His eyes strayed to the clock. The long hand was creeping on to the black line of six. There was a little whirr.

"Our time has come, Benskin," Matthew announced, smiling across at him. "Can you hear anything?"

The first note of the hour struck and from somewhere down below came a curious whirring sound. Benskin, with his arms folded, sat looking steadily across the table. He could see Matthew's face—nothing else in the world—the mocking lips, the clear eyes, with their splendid and yet inhuman light. The clock struck—one, two, three, four, five, six—once more the whirring and then silence. Matthew rose to his feet and his hands strayed towards the mantelpiece.

"My little friend," he said, "I congratulate you. You have saved your own life and the lives of a few of your friends. There is only one quality which appeals to me and that is bravery. If you had flinched, you were a dead man. As it is, my best wishes!"

Benskin's movement was the swiftest he had ever made, but he was too late. Matthew, with the cigarette still between his lips, held the gun to his temples and pulled the trigger twice. He collapsed without a word or a groan onto the table and from there to the floor. Benskin stood looking at him for a moment. Then he crossed the room and unlocked the door.

When the little crowd of excited men rushed into the cabin, they found him on his knees by the side of the dead man. There was no exultation in his face when the Sub-Commissioner grasped him by his hand.

"He cheated me after all, sir," he muttered tonelessly.


THE Sub-Commissioner, welcoming Benskin after his month's leave of absence, heard the news with dismay.

"But, my dear fellow," he protested, "I have some most interesting work waiting for you. You're a young man and very much in favour. To resign just at the beginning of your career seems absurd."

"There will never be another Matthew, sir," Benskin replied, "and if there were, I am not at all sure that I should want to go after him. Besides, I've come to the conclusion that I should never make a first-class detective."

"You're a first-class fisherman," Lady Muriel murmured, "and you're much better on a horse that I ever dared to hope."

Major Houlden looked from one to the other.

"Where are you going to live, Benskin?" he asked suspiciously.

"In Ireland," Benskin confessed.

"Quite a good matchmaker, aren't you, Major Houlden?" Lady Muriel laughed.</story>