<story title="The Masked Trinity" date="1927">
MAJOR HOULDEN, Sub-Commissioner of Scotland Yard, came to a decision. He laid down the letter which he had been reading, and rang the bell.

"Send Detective Benskin to me," he directed the man who answered it.

"Certainly, sir."

Benskin followed hard upon the summons and he found the Sub-Commissioner glancing through the columns of a ledger which stood by his side.

"Three years, I see, since you exchanged from the Police Force, Benskin," he remarked. "You've handled a good many cases—most of them successfully. Nothing big, though. Are you ambitious?"

"Yes, sir," was the quiet reply.

"Character A1," the Sub-Commissioner went on thoughtfully. "Not a single black mark. That's good. Plenty of pluck. You took Holland single-handed, didn't you, and got a bullet in your arm? Not much physique—"

"Passed first class in jiu-jitsu and boxing though," Benskin intervened gently.

Major Houlden nodded.

"I had missed that," he confessed. "I see that you went to a Public School, and I have a note that you patronise a West End tailor and have rooms in Cork Street. Correct, eh?"

"Yes, sir," Benskin admitted. "I have a small private income."

His Chief leaned forward in his chair.

"There's a big job going, Benskin," he confided. "There are half a dozen men I ought to give it to before you, but they don't just fit in. For one thing, they're too easily recognisable. The trouble with most of my staff is that whatever clothes they wear, you can't mistake 'em—look all the time as though they were made up for a crook play. Read this."

Detective Peter Benskin stretched out his hand for the letter, and studied it carefully:


Hotel de Paris, Monte Carlo. September 2nd.
Dear Mr. Sub-Commissioner,
How unkind of you to hurry me away from Monte Carlo. I had just succeeded where every mathematician has failed—in evolving the really perfect system. In a month the Casino would have closed its doors,
I will take what I hope you will not think a mean revenge. I will visit you in London. You shall know the exact date of my arrival as soon at I have made my plans.
Your Police system, Mr. Sub-Commissioner, would have been a great credit to Queen Elizabeth, or Henry VIII; to-day, do you mind my suggesting that you are just a little old-fashioned? These blundering enquiries, these awkward, ill-dressed sleuth-hounds, so out of the picture, my dear sir! They might wear "Scotland Yard" upon their caps, like Cook's tourist guides. If ever I decide to retire, I shall offer you the services of my own staff. Believe me, you would learn something then of the real art of espionage.
I have many names to draw from—some of which I have made famous, and some infamous—but I will content myself by signing this with the name which appears most often in your terribly erroneous descriptions of me.
Matthew!

There was the faintest possible change in Benskin's face as he reached the signature—a quick, indrawn breath, a flash of those ordinarily mild blue eyes. The Sub-Commissioner noticed it and approved.

"The letter came by this morning's post," the latter observed. "I have been wondering whether it was a hoax?"

"Nothing of the sort, sir," was the prompt reply. "That letter's genuine enough."

"Why do you think so?"

"I've studied this man and his methods," Benskin said. "He's an amazing character, but he has his weaknesses, like the rest of us. If ever we catch him—and we shall catch him, sir—it will be through this one trait in his character—his vanity."

Houlden nodded thoughtfully.

"Something in that," he acknowledged.

"They say he's a man with few pleasures in his life," the young detective went on. "This is one of his greatest—to mock and flout his pursuers. He'll never deny himself that. He's had the most marvellous career of any criminal in history, but some day or other he'll fall into line, he'll do like everyone of the others—he'll make the one small mistake. Then we shall get him."

There was a curious, almost a feverish note of anticipation in Benskin's last words. Houlden looked across at him curiously.

"Keen on the job, Benskin?" he enquired.

"Major," the detective replied, and if his physique was somewhat the physique of a youth, his voice now was the voice of a man, "there's no criminal in the world I'd rather bring in than Matthew."

"This is where I think you might start," the Sub-Commissioner proceeded, adjusting his monocle, and studying a memorandum block by his side. "In no less aristocratic a neighbourhood than Number 16a, Belgrave Square, there exists a gaming house where baccarat and chemin de fer are played for very high stakes. The place calls itself a mixed bridge club, and exists under the name of the 'Wanderers', but I doubt whether there's a rubber a week played there."

"Is this a matter of a raid, sir?"

"God bless my soul, no!" was the emphatic reply. "No spot in London likely to be so useful to us at the present moment. On the contrary, we want people to feel that they are safe there. Some day or other, a very big fish may wander in. That will be the time for the gaff, eh?"

"But surely, sir," Benskin ventured, "they must feel that it's touch and go all the time with them?"

Major Houlden shook his head gently.

"They're gaining confidence every day. As a matter of fact, the management are very generous. We're taking very large bribes from them."

"Bribes!"

"The Police Orphanage was the richer last week by a hundred pounds; the three constables on the beat are receiving five pounds a week each, the inspector ten, besides occasional gratuities. The money is regularly handed in, of course, but the management of the club have no idea of that. They think they have the police in the hollow of their hands."

"I see," Benskin murmured.

"This is where you commence your campaign," his Chief explained. "You'll have to join that club, Benskin, and you'll have to cut out Cork Street altogether for the present. There's a small suite already taken for you at the Milan Hotel, in the name of Walsh—Andrew Walsh. You are one of the famous banking firm whose headquarters are at Sydney. You have plenty of money, but you're modest about it—plenty of money, but very few friends in London. You have also a very charming lady companion who will join the club at the same time."

Benskin looked a little doubtful.

"I can manage everything else, sir," he confided—"I can even play chemie a bit—but the lady—"

"She will be provided for you, of course."

The Sub-Commissioner touched a bell, murmured a word of instruction, and a moment or two later a young woman was shown into the room. She was quietly but exceedingly well dressed, and her smile as she greeted Major Houlden was most attractive.

"This is Mr. Benskin," the latter said—"Lady Muriel Carter."

They shook hands and Benskin's vague misgivings began to disappear.

"Lady Muriel will help you about joining the club," her sponsor explained. "It will cost you money there, of course, but the Treasury will honour all your chits. When you are in, don't be afraid of losing a little."

"May I ask you one thing, sir?" Benskin ventured. "Why are you so sure that our man will come to this club?"

His Chief smiled.

"No one can be sure of anything, of course," he admitted, "but I am letting the club rip on in the hope, and I think it's worth while for you to bank on it too. The fact of it is, our man is immune from every form of dissipation except gambling. We know he was in London last year, but we couldn't get at him. We tried him with the most beautiful women in the world, and they might as well have been maids-of-all-work. But there's one thing his records show, and that is that wherever in the world there has been gambling on a great scale—at the Travellers' Club in Paris, Cannes, Monte Carlo, Madrid, Florida, Buenos Ayres—sooner or later Matthew has paid that spot one of his furtive visits, there is a sensational loss, or a sensational win, but before we can lay our hands on him he has disappeared. They are talking already about a young Argentine having lost twenty thousand pounds in Belgrave Square the other night. That's the sort of gossip will bring him. By the by," he added, looking at his watch, "my time is up. You will find a packet of visiting cards in your room, Benskin, and your number is 128, Milan Court. Have your clothes moved in with as little fuss as possible. You'd better dine somewhere publicly to-night with Lady Muriel. She'll arrange it."

"Ciro's at nine," the young lady decided.

"I'm not a member," Benskin told her.

"I'll put your name down," she promised. "See you in the lobby."


AT Ciro's, soon after they had taken their places at a very desirable table, Lady Muriel pointed out two people on the other side of the room. The man was dark, tall, with masses of grey hair brushed smoothly back from a not unintelligent but too low forehead. His companion, who, from the perfection of her gown and jewellery, appeared to be a Frenchwoman, talked more to the maître d'hôtel than to her friend and seemed bored with the whole proceeding.

"That's the man we want to get in touch with," Lady Muriel confided—"Colonel Braund, the secretary of the Wanderers' Club. The woman with him is the Comtesse Riga. Our friend Major Houlden would probably regard her as one of the decoys of the place. I believe, as a matter of fact, though, that she is exceedingly wealthy and gambles because she loves it."

"You don't know either of them, I suppose?" Benskin enquired.

"Not yet," she admitted, "but things are moving. I have noticed incidents already which you, naturally, would not be looking out for. We are strangers here and we look fairly opulent. That is quite enough for Braund. I saw him send for the manager, just as I knew he would. He has our names already, copied from the book. He knows by this time that you are Andrew Walsh, banker, of Sydney, and that I am Lady Muriel Carter."

"Yes, but you will forgive my pointing out," Benskin ventured, after a moment's hesitation, "that Debrett's is a very easily accessible volume. Your name is, I presume, like my own, fabricated?"

She shook her head.

"The Sub-Commissioner is not quite such a bungler as that," she assured him. "Muriel Carter is my name and I have a perfect right to my title. My people are all settled at a convenient distance in the wilds of Ireland, and I am supposed to be doing a little 'journalism' in town—which indeed is the truth. That is where Major Houlden is rather clever in his stage settings. One of us being genuine is a guarantee for the other."

"I see," Benskin ruminated. "And the next step?"

"Will come from them, if not to-night, to-morrow night."

It came even sooner than they had expected. Before they had proceeded very far with their dinner, they saw the two people in whom they were interested rise from their places and, preceded by a bowing maître d'hôtel, cross the floor and establish themselves in the other half of the recess occupied by Benskin and his companion. The man caught the former's eye and leaned forward.

"You will forgive our intrusion," he begged. "Madame finds the draught in our usual corner intolerable."

The preambles of a little desultory conversation were already established. An hour or so later, when Braund and his companion rose to leave, the latter turned to Lady Muriel.

"You go on, perhaps, to the Florida?"

Lady Muriel shook her head doubtfully.

"I am afraid not," she replied. "My friend, Mr. Walsh, is not very fond of dancing. I fear he has more reprehensible tastes."

"As, for example?" Braund enquired politely.

The candour of Benskin's confession was irresistible.

"It is very foolish," he admitted. "I am a Colonial, you see, and I am afraid we are all fonder of a little gambling when we have a night off."

Braund's eyes seemed suddenly to narrow.

"Well," he observed, after a moment's pause, and as though satisfied with his scrutiny, "there's plenty of gambling in London if one knows the ropes and has introductions."

"I suppose so," Benskin assented listlessly. "I've been put up for a bridge club already, where they play two pound a hundred—'rather a gamble', the secretary called it! That isn't the sort of thing I mean,"

"If you'd really like a little of the real thing," Braund suggested, after a moment's hesitation, "may I ask to whom I have the pleasure of talking?"

Mutual introductions were effected. Braund took his new friend by the arm.

"Hypocritical city, London, you know. We have to keep this sort of thing very quiet, but you can have a game of chemin de fer to-night, if you'd care for it. I can't promise that it will be a big affair, but there's always money there."

"Nothing I should like better," the pseudo-Australian banker assented with enthusiasm. "I thought it was illegal in London though."

Braund smiled.

"We have good friends amongst the police," he confided.


THE Sub-Commissioner was in an exceedingly ruffled state when Benskin called upon him to report a week later. After the briefest of greetings, he passed a telegram across the table.

"What do you make of that?" he demanded.

Benskin read the few words carefully. It had been handed in at Monte Carlo on the previous afternoon:


COMING OVER BY BLUE TRAIN THURSDAY. ENGAGE SUITABLE ACCOMMODATION AND MEET ME VICTORIA. LOVE.—MATTHEW.

The Sub-Commissioner was thoroughly upset. In Benskin's eyes, however, there flamed, for a moment only, a sudden fire; afterwards he laughed softly.

"The man's vanity again!"

"Ordering me to meet him!" the Sub-Commissioner spluttered. "Gad, I should like him to have the accommodation I'd find him! He'd hear the tapping under his window before long, and I don't think he'd find his bed too comfortable."

"Anyway, we'll meet the train, I suppose," Benskin observed.

"Yes, we'll meet the train, but whether we'll find him or not is a different matter. He's quite likely to be travelling as the Archbishop of Canterbury or working as an extra stoker on the engine!"

He took up the telephone receiver.

"Put me through to the Passports Office at Dover, afterwards to the Chief Commissioner at Dover, and come and fetch a wireless for the captain of the Maid of Kent.... How are you getting on, young man?" he enquired, taking a cigarette from his case and tapping it.

"Quite well, thank you, sir," Benskin reported. "I've been at the club most nights and I think they're becoming used to me there. The chemie seems straight enough, except that there's a seven and a half per cent cagnotte. The baccarat's faked. There are three men, one of whom always takes the bank—Vanderleyde, a chocolate manufacturer from Brussels; Solomon, an elderly Jew living up at Highgate; or Amos Wheatley, a retired cotton spinner from Lancashire. I'm pretty good at card tricks myself, but there's nothing any one of these three could learn from Maskelyne and Cook."

"What about the company?"

"Extraordinary! Last night I could have made four arrests, including Lampson, the man who is wanted for the Bethnal Green forgery. I passed on certain information to Inspector Collins, with your instructions though that no one is to be arrested leaving or entering the club."

"Quite right," the Sub-Commissioner assented. "We can put our hands on the small fry any time."

"Lady Muriel is making a list of other people she knows," Benskin went on. "Good names, some of them, but a pretty disreputable lot, I fancy. There's plenty of money about, though. I wouldn't be surprised if it were just the place to attract our friend."

The Sub-Commissioner spoke on the telephone for several minutes. When he had finished, he had regained his equanimity. He pushed a box of cigarettes across to Benskin.

"The trouble will be to recognise the fellow," he confided. "I was talking to the Chef de Sûreté in Paris only yesterday. They have him entered under the name of Vanderler, and they have four murders and seven robberies against him. He told me that never in history has there been any man, amateur or professional, such a complete artist in the matter of disguises. He could have made a fortune upon the stage as an impersonator."

"Have you any idea what he really looks like?" Benskin asked. "I've read the books, of course: I mean, apart from that."

"Brodie, the American detective, faltered out a few words before he died," the Sub-Commissioner reflected. "Matthew got him in a café at Bordeaux. The substance of what he said was that Matthew appeared to be a man of breeding—slim, with a frame of steel, very lissome in his movements, and with particularly brilliant eyes which he usually concealed behind spectacles. According to Brodie, they are of slightly different shades of brown, which is probably why he generally wears spectacles. No use talking about his hair, because he puts on a wig as easily as we should put on a hat. There's one thing you'll always have to remember, Benskin. He's the quickest man with a gun of any of the famous criminals. He believes in killing as the safest way out of any situation, and he's lived up to his creed. I never encourage bloodshed, as you know, but if you're sure of your man, don't hesitate. He'll never be taken alive if he can help it. Let's see how quick you can be."

The words were scarcely out of his mouth before he was looking into the black muzzle of an automatic. He threw himself back in his chair with a little exclamation.

"That's one on me," he admitted. "I don't know where you learned that trick, but it's good."

"I practise ten minutes every morning, sir," Benskin confided. "We may go down together, but I don't think he'll get me first."

"Meet me in private waiting room Number 16 at Victoria Station this afternoon," the Sub-Commissioner directed with a little gesture of dismissal.

The arrival of a crowded boat-train at Victoria is usually an event of some interest to the Police Force at Scotland Yard. Upon this particular occasion, the Sub-Commissioner, having issued his instructions to his little company of assistants in the waiting room reserved for the use of the police, was strolling up and down the platform, smoking a cigar and looking about him with the cheerful air of one expecting welcome guests. Benskin, a little more in the background, covered a section of the train, and twelve other keen-eyed myrmidons of the Yard, who only appeared upon the platform at the last second, were also exercising a close, though inconspicuous surveillance over the stream of descending passengers. There was a royal prince, democratically seated in one of the Pullmans, who was greeted by a little group of friends and hurried away; an English lawn-tennis champion, fresh from his successes in Paris, received a small company of journalists before stepping into his taxicab with a case of racquets under his arm. A Cabinet Minister almost escaped observation until the last moment, when his secretary, arriving late, had to rescue him from the journalists who had just become aware of his identity. Apart from these three, the travellers seemed to be the usual sort of nondescript crowd. Not one of the watchers had anything to report of the slightest importance. Major Houlden and Benskin left the station together. The former was taciturn and a little depressed.

"After all, we're only human beings," he remarked, "and it's like looking for a needle in a haystack until we get something to start on. There were at least fifty men on that train who might have been Matthew. Looks as though the first move would rest with him."

"I'm not so sure," Benskin ruminated. "Colonel Braund told me that they were expecting some very high play to-night at the club."

"That sounds interesting," Houlden observed, a little more cheerfully. "Didn't mention any names, I suppose?"

"Better than that, he was inclined to be mysterious."

The two men stood together, waiting for a taxi. A drizzling rain was falling and everyone else had stepped back into shelter.

"I shall leave you to it," his chief decided. "If Matthew goes to the club to-night, he'll have his own men watching outside and they'd spot it at once if any of ours were there. I shall leave the place entirely alone. If you want help, you know what to do."

Benskin nodded.

"You're quite right, sir," he approved. "Leave the door open and unwatched. It's our best chance."

A taxicab arrived at last. The Sub-Commissioner stepped inside. Benskin had elected for another stroll upon the platform.

"You won't go down there before midnight, I suppose?" the former asked, leaning out of the taxicab window.

"Never anything doing till one o'clock, sir."

"Dine with me at the Olympic Club at ten, if you don't mind waiting so late," Major Houlden invited. "If any news comes in I can let you have it."

"I'll be there, sir."


BENSKIN and the Sub-Commissioner were lingering over their coffee in the smoking room of the Olympic when the latter, who had been glancing through the late edition of an evening paper, suddenly sat up with a little start.

"What's the meaning of this, I wonder?" he demanded, leaning forward with his forefinger upon an item in the stop press:


Edgar Howson, the English Lawn Tennis Champion, this afternoon won the men's singles in the open tournament at Versailles, defeating Boiret 6-3, 6-4, 6-0.


Benskin read the paragraph through again, frowning.

"Why, surely that was Howson upon the train? I saw him with a case of racquets and half a dozen journalists around him."

"And, my God, look here!" his companion exclaimed. "Listen!—


"Lord Ellacott, who was expected to return to England to-day, is confined to his room at the Hotel Meurice, Paris, by an attack of influenza, and will be unable to travel for several days.


"Why, I saw him on the platform, shaking hands with Stevens of the Times!"

The two men looked at one another. Probably the same thought was forcing its way into both their minds. A club servant respectfully intervened.

"I beg your pardon, Major Houlden, but a special messenger has just arrived from Scotland Yard. He wishes to see you on urgent business. As there was no one here, I took the liberty of bringing him up at once."

A uniformed inspector stepped forward.

"What is it, Saunders?" his Chief asked.

"Two burglaries, sir, reported within the last half an hour," the man replied. "One at Ellacott House—a lot of jewellery missing: another at a flat in Dover Street, occupied by Howson, the tennis player."

"Any violence?"

"Howson's servant is rather badly knocked about, sir. He's able to talk, but rambles all the time—will have it that it was his master who attacked him. At Ellacott House, the butler declares that his master returned by the Continental train this afternoon and went out again later. The whole of her ladyship's jewellery is gone and many other treasures."

The Sub-Commissioner, with Benskin by his side, hurried downstairs. In the hall, the bemedalled commissionaire presented a note. The Sub-Commissioner read it through and winced. He passed it on to his companion:


Dear Major Houlden,
Not bad for a start. We are here, you see, close to you, comfortably established, and looking forward to a prosperous time. Don't change your personnel. We are anticipating many amiable encounters with Mr. Benskin.
Ever yours,
Matthew.

"Who left this note?" Houlden demanded.

"That's just what I can't tell you, sir," the commissionaire replied in a puzzled tone. "When I went up to the smoking room, bringing you the messenger from Scotland Yard, it certainly wasn't here. I found it lying on my desk when I got back."

Benskin, with a word of apology, put it carefully away in his pocketbook.

"We must grin and bear it, I suppose," he remarked—"until our time comes."


AT Ellacott House, where an inspector was already in charge, the whole business appeared almost too pathetically simple. The servants were still hard to convince that it was not their master who had entered, who had ordered a whisky and soda, gone to his room for some time, and left the house with apparently the same luggage as he had brought, announcing his intention of spending the night at his club. The original contents of the principal bag, however, were discovered in the bedroom, and it had evidently been repacked with the jewels and many other objects of great value.

"His lordship's return," the butler explained, "was quite unexpected, as we had received a telegram only an hour previously, saying that he was indisposed and unable to travel. No preparations had been made for him, therefore, or dinner arranged for. His valet was out and it was only a chance that I myself was in the house. None of us thought it in the least out of the way, and we were all rather relieved, as a matter of fact, when his lordship said that he would dine and sleep at the club."

"The devil's own luck!" Houlden grumbled, as the two men took their leave. "Everything seems to have conspired to make his get-away a perfectly natural affair."

At Howson's flat there was nothing whatever to be gathered in the way of a clue. The only person who had seen the intruder was Howson's servant, and he, only partially conscious, was still obstinately convinced that it was his master who had attacked him. Benskin and his Chief were both a little depressed when they parted at the corner of Dover Street.

"I'm off to bed," the former announced. "You'd better do the same. We shall have all the hotel reports to go through in the morning."

Benskin called a taxi.

"I shall just spend an hour in Belgrave Square," he confided.

The Sub-Commissioner nodded indifferently.

"Waste of time to-night, I should think."

"The place always interests me," Benskin remarked.


BENSKIN, on his arrival at the Wanderers' Club, found Lady Muriel exchanging some banknotes for chips in the secretary's little apartment, an annex to the main room. She called him to her.

"Such foul luck!" she sighed. "Three times eights against nines, and the only bank I drew in for a trifle ran eleven times. I'm just changing my last three notes. Give me a drink before you start playing."

"Rather!" he assented.

"How much may I change for you, Mr. Walsh?" the secretary enquired genially.

Benskin handed over a hundred pounds' worth of banknotes, and received blue and red chips in exchange, after which he followed Lady Muriel to a corner and ordered some wine from a waiter. As soon as they were alone she leaned towards him. Her luminous grey eyes were full of a serious light, her tone was anxious.

"I'm so glad you've come," she confided. "There's something wrong about the place to-night."

He looked around him, the keenness of his observation masked a little by the good-humoured smile upon his lips.

"I don't notice anything particular," he murmured. "Rather more people, perhaps, but very few strangers."

She shook her head.

"It's just a feeling I have," she went on, "but I know I'm right. Even the habitués seem changed. There's old Mr. Solomon for instance. He's playing much higher than usual and he doesn't seem the same somehow. Who's the consumptive-looking man with the haggard face we were introduced to the first night?"

"Wheatley," Benskin reminded her—"Amos Wheatley. He's a cotton spinner from somewhere in Lancashire. I've looked him up in the book and he conforms all right. Made three or four millions in the amalgamation of all those mills up north and has dropped half of it since."

"That's the man," she nodded. "He gave banque ouverte tonight, a thing I've never seen him do before, and when he lost he laughed—laughed outright, and I've never noticed him even smile before. The whole place gives one a queer impression of everyone being different.... Look, there's a vacant place just opposite Mr. Solomon. You take it and watch him. I'll come and put in your bank."

Benskin rose to his feet and, crossing the room, took the chair which the croupier was holding for him. Exactly opposite was Mr. Solomon, indulging in his favourite gesture—dropping his counters through his fingers, collecting them again, and building them into neat piles. He murmured his usual ceremonious "good evening" when Benskin seated himself and then resumed his harmless occupation.

"The game is slow to-night," he observed presently, taking off his spectacles for a moment, as though to rest his eyes. "Our friends at the other end of the table arc monopolising it. They take every banco, buy every bank, and leave us with nothing to do."

Benskin smiled sympathetically. His blue eyes had never looked more ingenuous. He scratched his chin for a moment and glanced up at the struggle which was proceeding a few places away. But, indifferent though he seemed, and as good-naturedly emotionless as ever, the whole of his being was suddenly thrilled. Never for a second, however, did he lose his self-control. He felt himself subjected to a close and searching scrutiny, and he bore it without flinching. He even, after a few seconds' pause, carried a little further the desultory conversation.

"Were you here last night, Mr. Solomon?" he enquired.

"Last night, and the night before, and, as a matter of fact, every night for the last month. If one is a gambler at heart, what else is there for one to do? I love to gamble. I have business interests in England, or I should live abroad, as near one of the best casinos as possible. As I cannot do that, I make myself Colonel Braund's best client."

The bank reached the man who was seated on Benskin's left. He tossed a ten-pound chip into the pool, which Benskin promptly bancoed and won. He started his own bank with the same amount.

"Will you permit me to join you, sir?" Mr. Solomon suggested.

Benskin looked around, but Lady Muriel was nowhere in evidence.

"With pleasure," he assented.

They won three coups, but on the fourth, banco was called by Amos Wheatley, leaning, thin and eager, over the table. Benskin shook his head.

"You are quite right, sir," Solomon declared approvingly. "There is enough there for us to divide pleasantly. One must not be too ambitious."

The bank was auctioned and bought at once. Benskin rose from his place, leaving his chips in front of him.

"I shall go and finish my drink," he observed. "I'd hate to see it run another three or four times."

He strolled about the rooms, apparently aimlessly. Gradually he edged his way into the hall and towards the telephone booth. The hall porter pointed apologetically to a notice pinned outside.

"Sorry, sir," he announced, "the telephone's out of order. They're coming to see to it the first thing in the morning."

Benskin was for a moment nonplussed.

"Surely there's another somewhere in the building?" he demanded.

"There's one in Colonel Braund's private office, sir," the man replied, "but that's up at the very top of the house."

"I'll speak from there," Benskin decided.

"It's three storeys up, sir," the man told him doubtfully, "and the lift hasn't been working since we took the premises."

Benskin produced a ten-shilling note and the concierge promptly came out from behind his counter.

"This way, sir," he invited.

They climbed to the top of the house. The concierge unlocked the door of a room and motioned Benskin to enter.

"There's the instrument on the table, sir," he pointed out. "I've pushed the latch back, but do you mind locking the door when you leave? Thank you, sir."

The man received his tip, and departed. Benskin crossed the floor quickly, sat down at the table, and took up the receiver.

"400Y," he demanded.

For some time there was no response. He rang again. "What number did you want?" a tired voice asked, "400Y—urgent."

Again there was a long wait. Then the same tired voice. "Were you asking for 400Y? There is no such number."

"Is that the exchange?" Benskin enquired.

"Yes."

"Look in your book of private numbers, quickly," he enjoined. "You'll find 400Y all right. Put me through."

There was a longer wait than ever. At the end of it, however, came a man's voice, prompt and decisive.

"400Y speaking."

"Walsh," Benskin announced firmly. "You know where I am. Send me a thousand pounds."

"A thousand pounds," the voice repeated. "Very good, Mr. Walsh."

Benskin rang off and leaned back in his chair. 400Y was the night department of Scotland Yard, and "a thousand pounds" was the code word for the strongest force of armed police which could be collected without delay.

Colonel's Braund's office was comfortably, even luxuriously, furnished, and in a distant corner was a camp bedstead discreetly concealed by a screen. Benskin lingered for a moment in the softly padded chair, his mind fixed upon the little scene below. Step by step he was building up his plans for the next half hour. He decided not to enter the card room himself again for the present, but to send the concierge in for Lady Muriel, despatch her to a place of safety, and, on the arrival of the police, rush the place after the manner of an ordinary raid. Suddenly his reflections were broken in upon. He fancied that he heard the sound of a footstep outside upon the stairs. He half rose to his feet, thrilled by that queer, indefinable sense of danger which nearly all hunters of criminals possess. Then, without the slightest warning, every light in the room went out and he was left in complete darkness.

There followed several moments of acute and breathless suspense. Benskin's hand strayed cautiously round his body to his hip pocket. He gripped his automatic tightly and stood a little away from the table. There were three doors, and he faced the one through which he had entered. Gradually a thin line of light warned him that it was being pushed gently open. At the same time, however, two other thin lines of light appeared in different parts of the room. All three doors were now an inch or so ajar. From one of them, at last, a suave but compelling voice broke the terrifying silence.

"Better put that gun down. You're covered three times over through the cracks of the doors."

The detective hesitated. Each of the thin lines of light was broken at about the same height from the ground by a dark blob.

"We don't tell lies, my young friend," the same voice continued calmly. "Throw your gun on to the table in front of you and stand away."

Benskin's brain worked quickly. His unseen enemy, without a doubt, had his life in his hands. He threw his gun upon the table. Instantly the room was flooded with light. On the threshold in front of him stood Mr. Solomon, lank and grey of visage, cigarette ash spilt over his old-fashioned frock coat, and his wisp of black cravat as usual a little awry. Framed in the other two doorways stood Mr. Vanderleyde and Amos Wheatley. Mr. Solomon lowered the gun which he had been carrying.

"Keep away from the table, Benskin," he enjoined. "You see, I am dispensing with my own gun, but my friends there, Mr. Vanderleyde and Mr. Wheatley, are still watching you very closely."

The speaker dragged a chair up to the table. He reached over and dropped Benskin's automatic into one of the drawers of the desk.

"I have underrated you, Peter Benskin," he confessed sorrowfully. "It is very sad, but I shall have to pay the penalty. I shall have to deny myself the one recreation in this dull city of yours to which I have been looking forward. This establishment, which I had hoped to find a harbour of refuge, will probably have to close its doors."

Benskin slowly subsided into the chair against which he had been leaning.

"Do you mind my pointing out that as, according to your instructions, I am unarmed," he said, "there is no need for Mr. Wheatley and Mr. Vanderleyde to keep their guns in that unpleasantly horizontal position. Those hair triggers are infernally sensitive."

Mr. Solomon waved his hand.

"Never take your eyes off my little friend," he directed his companions. "I do not altogether trust him even now. On the other hand, he will probably feel more at his ease if you do as he suggests."

The two men approached a few steps farther into the room, but lowered their guns. Mr. Vanderleyde, whose suave manners and courtesy downstairs had earned him many compliments, sank into an easy-chair, with his automatic upon his knee.

"I think you're wrong, chief," he grumbled. "I have always had a presentiment that this little man might bring us trouble."

Mr. Wheatley coughed hoarsely.

"I should get rid of him," he wheezed. "Put the fear of God into them at the Yard. Nothing like starting as you mean to go on!"

Mr. Solomon reflected for a moment.

"No," he decided. "I am very angry with you, Peter Benskin—very angry with you indeed—but I don't think we can spare you just yet. I wonder if you realise what a nuisance you are. Solomon, Vanderleyde, and Wheatley have been at least a month building up identities into which we were to slip whilst they disappeared, and here, on the very first night, you destroy our whole scheme. One up to you, Benskin! I will confess that. In return, as a favour, as a very special favour, do tell me where I failed. Thirty seconds after you took that chair opposite me at the chemie table, you realised that I was not the Mr. Solomon of last night. What was wrong?"

"The eyes," Benskin replied. "You took off your spectacles for a moment."

Mr. Solomon nodded in melancholy fashion. He turned towards his friends.

"What did I tell you?" he demanded. "Whatever you may think about him, and however you may be misled by his appearance, I contend that our young friend here is a very intelligent person. He will show us, I am sure—if we decide to give him the opportunity—plenty of sport. By the by, I noticed you at Victoria, Mr. Benskin. It was very fortunate for us that yon did not subject Lord Ellacott and Howson to the same—shall we call it?—'inspired' scrutiny. You might seriously have interfered with our evening's work, as well as our pleasure.... May I ask you why you are looking at the clock so often?"

Benskin tapped with his lingers upon the table.

"To tell you the truth," he confided, "I was looking at the clock to see what time it was."

The quality of Mr. Solomon's smile became a trifle more sardonic.

"A pretty humour," he murmured. "For the moment I was afraid that you were courting disappointment, that you were speculating as to the arrival of that posse of police?"

Benskin was conscious of a sudden sense of dismay. Mr. Solomon shook his head.

"Of course you know," the latter continued, "that you were speaking into a house telephone. You got no nearer to 400Y than the housekeeper's room in the basement."

Benskin was silent for a moment.

"The success of the evening does not lie entirely with me then," he remarked.

"Not entirely," Mr. Solomon acknowledged. "We shall leave these premises in dignified fashion, and without hurry, certainly in more comfort than you had designed for us. Am I right in supposing that you can see the time from where you sit, Mr. Benskin?"

"It is three o'clock."

Mr. Solomon rose to his feet. His two companions, whose eyes had watched Benskin's every movement, were already on their way to the door.

"I take it," he observed, "that you are too clever a man to attempt the impossible. At ten minutes past three you are free to descend to your friends, continue, if you will, your mild gambling, or communicate in any way you choose with Scotland Yard. If you attempt to leave this room by either door before then, the result will be unfortunate.... No, stay exactly where you are, please. No nearer that drawer."

Benskin watched their retreating figures with anguish in his heart.

"Scarcely living up to your reputation, Matthew, are you?" he observed. "I thought that you never lost a chance of getting rid of an enemy."

Mr. Solomon turned back from the door with a faint smile at the corners of his lips, a smile which seemed somehow intensified by the deepening of the lines about his eyes.

"Peter Benskin," he said, "if I thought that you were really an object of future danger to me, I should he regretfully compelled to participate in one of life's minor tragedies. You would be found here with your brains blown out—suicide after your losses at chemie, of course, as many people would be ready to testify. I flatter myself, however, that I am an artist. I do nothing without necessity. If ever, as I have already warned you, the time should arrive when you really become dangerous, when the open way is not there behind, then I promise you that I would not hesitate—one, two, a dozen of you—I would kill you like flies, but not for the sake of killing. Be wise, my young friend, Stay where you are until that long hand is well over the ten minutes past the hour. Then you may open the door without fear."

They left the room, and, in precisely ten minutes, Benskin followed them, conscious of retreating footsteps in the direction of the back stairs. The game was still in full progress below. Mr. Solomon—but, alas, not the same Mr. Solomon—was running a bank; Mr. Vanderleyde, without the bloodthirsty smile of his prototype, was cashing a cheque with the cashier; the perfect reproduction of Mr. Amos Wheatley was prowling round the table with hawk-like face. Lady Muriel rose from her seat and came to meet him.

"You look a little dazed," she remarked wonderingly. "Has anything happened?"

He shook his head.

"To-morrow," he confided, with a bitterness which no effort could conceal, "I am going to ask for my police constable's uniform back again and beg for a post as traffic inspector somewhere in the suburbs."</story>