<story title="Lady Among Thieves" date="1928">
BENSKIN, although he had been in many tight corners, faced death now—death instant and unpleasant—for the first time in his life. He could see into the barrel of the automatic, held with unswerving fingers only a few feet away from his chest, and he was physiognomist enough to realise that in the face of the man who held it there was little enough to be expected of mercy or consideration. The light blue eyes were hard almost to stoniness, the hand as steady as a rock.

"The name! Out with it!" the man with the gun demanded harshly.

"I don't know what you're talking about," Benskin assured him quietly, almost indifferently. "I came in to borrow a tin of petrol. No one directed me and I haven't the least idea what your name is or who you are."

As though speech had in some way relieved the tension, Benskin found time for a swift but comprehensive glance around the little room into which he had made so unfortunate an entrance. No apartment in the world could have seemed less like the abode of such a desperate person as its occupant seemed to be—the prettily furnished drawing-room of a country cottage, with French windows, through which Benskin had entered, opening out on to a trim lawn. The furniture was simple but comfortable—a case of tennis racquets, a shotgun, and a bag of golf clubs leaning against the wall gave the place a homely appearance. Lounging in a chair in the background was a very attractive young woman of the modern type, in golfing clothes, short skirts, and a tam-o'-shanter which she had just thrown away, disclosing a very complete Eton crop. She had been binding up the handle of a brassie and had the air of one listening to a conversation in which she took only the mildest interest. She was essentially of the country type—healthy-looking, pleasantly sunburnt, with a complexion innocent of any form of cosmetics. It occurred to Benskin that she would have looked distinctly more in place swinging a golf club on the first tee at Sunningdale than as the companion of a man who appeared to carry an automatic even in the pocket of his flannel trousers. The latter spoke again.

"You are Benskin, the detective, aren't you?"

"I am," was the prompt admission, "but I can assure you that this afternoon, at any rate, I am not professionally occupied. I meant to take my car out for an hour or so—sometimes even a detective has a holiday!—stopped down the lane opposite your cottage, realised that I was out of petrol, saw that you had a garage, saw from across the lawn that you and your sister were seated here, and came to beg for the loan of a tin of petrol."

The girl looked up from the task, which she had just brought to its neat conclusion.

"It is possible, Alan," she suggested, "that the man is telling the truth."

"Possible but not very likely," the other rejoined.

"My car is out there in the lane, if you doubt my word," Benskin intervened. "You will find further proof in the fact that my tank is empty."

The girl rose to her feet.

"I will go and see," she announced.

She walked lightly out of the room and crossed the lawn with flying footsteps. The young man was unbending; his tone remained full of menace.

"I don't believe in miracles," he scoffed. "You're the man I expected would get on our tracks, and to tell me you wandered into the one place in England where we ought to have been safe, by accident, is a trifle too much. Come, Benskin, why don't you own up? There are only two people in the world who could have given away the secret of this little refuge. Out with the name, and if I can think of any scheme to save your life, I will."

"I have told you the simple and precise truth," Benskin assured his inquisitor. "I have no doubt that the business of crime and its detection continues as usual in my temporary absence, but I am finishing to-day a week's vacation, and incidentally recovering from an attack of influenza. That is why my knees are beginning to shake."

The girl reappeared.

"The man's story is true," she reported. "You're making an idiot of yourself, Alan. His car is out there and his petrol tank is as dry as a bone,"

"Then," the young man declared curtly, "you are the most unlucky person I ever knew, Benskin. You have blundered into the most dangerous spot for one of your profession in this part of the world."

"Under the circumstances," Benskin remarked, "I imagine it would not be tactful to ask your name, but at the same time I should like to remind you that I am getting very stiff standing in this unnatural attitude, and your finger doesn't seem to me to be quite as steady as it was. Couldn't we discuss the situation under slightly more agreeable conditions?"

The girl smiled very faintly.

"For a detective," she observed, "I rather like him, don't you, Alan? I think he's right about that automatic too. Take his parole not to go until we have decided what can be done."

"I never give my parole," Benskin interrupted quickly. "I am not a free agent. Under certain conditions it would be my duty to Scotland Yard to break it."

"A sportsman, at any rate," the girl approved. "Alan, you don't need a gun so long as he hasn't got one himself."

"See whether he has."

The girl came over and made a brief examination. "Not a sign of one," she announced.

"Cross the room," the young man enjoined, "and sit in that easy-chair with your face to the light. That's right. Lock the door, Hilda."

The girl obeyed. Her companion lowered his gun, placed it on the table by his side, and took a seat within easy reach of the French windows.

"Now, Hilda," he said, "let us hear what you have to suggest. You know the situation. What can we do with Mr. Benskin?"

She threw herself into a low chair and considered the matter.

"I don't want to leave here," she admitted. "I've just got my Golf Union handicap and there's a competition next week. The place suits us both, too. What a nuisance you are, Mr. Benskin!"

"Damnable luck!" the young man muttered. "There isn't one of you men on the Force would have had wit enough to track us down here, and you come and blunder into it."

"You must remember," Benskin ventured, "that I still haven't the faintest idea who you are."

"Perhaps not," the young man retorted, "but when you get back to your job—if you ever do get back to it—you won't be long finding out."

There was the sound of a cheery cry from outside.

"Uncle Jo!" the girl cried.

"Now we're for it!" the young man muttered.

There entered, in tennis flannels, a plump and elderly gentleman. He was pink and white and he was streaming with perspiration. He entered smiling, but his expression changed as he realised the presence of a stranger.

"What a set!" he exclaimed, eyeing Benskin inquisitively. "Six all, and three deuce and 'vantages. That doctor fellow takes some starting, but he's pretty useful when he moves. A visitor, eh! Is it my fancy sir," he added, "or is your face familiar to me?"

"It might be," the young man intervened gloomily. "This is Mr. Benskin, Uncle Jo, from Scotland Yard."

Uncle Jo seemed suddenly a very different person. The geniality faded from his face. His mouth closed like a rat trap.

"Paying us a friendly little visit, Mr. Benskin?" he asked quietly.

"In any case, my visit seems to have been a mistake," Benskin confessed. "I stopped at the bottom of the hill there and came in to borrow a tin of petrol. To the best of my belief, I've never seen one of you before, yet our young friend recognised me and appears disturbed."

"Yes, I can imagine that," Uncle Jo acknowledged thoughtfully.

"Assuming his story to be true," the younger man propounded—"and there is a certain amount of corroboration in the fact that his car is outside and without any petrol—assuming his story to be true, what are we to do about it?"

"Dear, dear me!" the elderly gentleman murmured, taking up a press for his racquet, but all the time watching Benskin out of the corners of his eyes. "This is most unfortunate."

"I think," Benskin suggested, rising to his feet, "that the best thing I can do is to clear out before one of you says something of which I might have to take official cognisance."

Uncle Jo's corpulent frame barred the way.

"Not just yet, Mr. Benskin—not just for a moment or two, let me beg. You have thrust a very interesting problem upon us. I should like to hear how my nephew proposes to deal with it."

"Crudely," the girl observed. "I have only just managed to persuade him to put his gun away."

"A natural instinct," Uncle Jo commented, taking out his handkerchief and dabbing his forehead. "Postpone the séance, if you please, whilst I mix myself a drink."

He made his way out into the hall and re-entered in a moment or two, carrying a tumbler from which there came as he walked a pleasant clink of ice.

"Any ideas?" he asked cheerfully.

The young man shook his head.

"He refuses to give his parole. I don't know that we could accept it if he would. I'm afraid—"

Uncle Jo nodded. That air of benevolence, which doubtless made him a welcome guest at some of the local households, had altogether disappeared. He drew his nephew on one side. The girl listened to their whispering, and as she listened, she lost entirely her air of good-natured indifference. She looked steadily across at Benskin. With her left hand she gripped something imaginary; with her right she went through a little pantomime which Benskin at once understood. He braced himself for the enterprise, rose quietly to his feet, poised himself for a moment upon his toes, and dashed for the window. The young man made a flying leap to intercept him, but Benskin stooped under his outstretched arm. The former hesitated no longer. His automatic flashed into the sunlight. Benskin knew then that the girl's gesture had conveyed to him the truth. There was the click of the trigger—and no result.

Breathless moments followed. Benskin was no mean runner, but before he had cleared the corner of the lawn, he heard the sound of swift footsteps behind him. He had no time to turn his head. He made for the gate, listening intently. After that first spurt, he decided that he was holding his own, but it was a mile uphill to the main road, and his car was useless. He remembered the physique of his pursuer and for a moment his heart sank. Then came a wave of wonderful recollection. In the pocket of his car—in the right-hand pocket! No need to save his strength now. He spurted forward, braced himself for the spring, and took the low white gate almost in his stride, dashed round the back of his car, felt eagerly, almost in terrified fashion, lest his memory had failed him, in the loose pocket. It was there—charged—a turn of the wrist—loaded. He stood out in the open just as the young man, full of confidence, but with a very terrible look in his face, sprang into the lane. The positions now were reversed. His pursuer looked into the barrel of Benskin's automatic and Benskin's hand was as steady as his own.

"Just a yard or two nearer, please," the latter invited. "I want to talk to you."

The young man came on stealthily. Benskin jerked his gun upwards and pulled the trigger. The bullet flew skyward with a sharp little spit.

"Just to prove to you that I keep my gun loaded," Benskin observed. "Now stand just where you are, please."

The other obeyed sullenly.

"And now what?" he demanded, his blue eyes rebellious, a mirror of menacing thought.

Benskin opened his lips to answer and suddenly paused. His heart gave a little jump. Upon the foot-board, by the bonnet of his car, stood a tin of petrol.

"I see that the petrol I sent for has arrived," he pointed out. "I think you and I have had enough of one another for the afternoon. Supposing you do me the last service of pouring that into my tank?"

"I'm damned if I will!" the young man refused.... "Blast!"

A very handsome limousine car turned the corner and glided down the hill. Benskin cautiously concealed his gun and moved a little nearer to the hedge. The limousine pulled up. A girl leaned out.

"Alan, you lazy person!" she exclaimed. "Why haven't you been near the links to-day?"

The young man moved towards the limousine. Benskin calmly poured in his tin of petrol, started up his engine and thrust in his gear. From half-way up the hill, he looked back through the rear window. His late antagonist was still talking to the occupants of the limousine. Three quarters of a mile ahead was the main road, a stream of cars, a police station near at hand, and safety. Benskin pushed in his second speed and careered gaily on his way.


THE Sub-Commissioner tapped the end of a cigarette, which he had been holding for some time, upon the table, and lit it. The fingers of his other hand were toying with a roughly written telephone message.

"I suppose you're sure, Benskin," he queried, "that everything last night was pretty well as you've reported it?" Benskin smiled reminiscently,

"It was a genuine hold-up sir," he said. "I can assure you of that."

Major Houlden turned to the slip of paper by his side.

"This is the telephone message from Cawston this morning," he confided. "It is from Sergeant Alston, who is a very intelligent man:

"Have visited the cottage down Cawston Lane, usually called 'The Small House', this morning. I found the owner, Mr. McDougal, an elderly gentleman, mowing the lawn. The young lady and gentleman had gone to play golf."

Benskin's face frankly expressed his surprise. Major Houlden coughed, but continued.

"You must remember that in none of the modern archives here have we any trio such as you describe on either the 'Suspected' or the 'Wanted' list. Run down and have another look at the place, of course, if you want to, but on the face of it, it really seems as though you had been made the victim of a practical joke."

"I don't think so, sir," was the firm though respectful reply. "In any case, I should very much like to go down this morning. May I take Brooks and another man—in plain clothes—just a little holiday jaunt?"

Major Houlden shrugged his shoulders.

"You don't usually make mistakes, Benskin," he admitted. "Certainly, go and clear the matter up."


"THE Small House" basked still in the sunshine of a perfect spring day. The neatly trimmed flower beds filled the air with perfume. Early butterflies were floating about. There was the hum of bees from the herbaceous borders. Yet there was somehow a changed look about the place. Benskin was conscious of it directly he approached the low French windows. He was more than ever sure of it when an elderly gentleman, who was a complete stranger to him, rose from a wicker chair upon the portico.

"Mr. McDougal?" Benskin enquired.

"My name, sir."

"Are you the owner of this cottage?"

"I am."

"Can you tell me where your tenants are?"

"Just what I'm asking myself," was the puzzled reply. "Queer kettle of fish altogether. They've gone."

"What—for good?"

"Seems so. I come up to do a bit of gardening once or twice a week. The young people generally go off to golf, but the old gentleman's usually around. This morning I've seen no one and what do you make of this? I found it in the tool shed when I took the lawn-mower back."

"This" was a plain sheet of paper to which were pinned several bank notes. There were a few words, written in a bold, feminine hand:

Dear Mr. McDougal,

So sorry to have to leave your charming cottage before our time. Notes attached. Please distribute the extra five pounds amongst the boy and the two girls who come up from the village.

Hilda Craven-Stewart.

"How long have they been here?" Benskin asked.

"Seven weeks. And damned good tenants too! Made friends in a minute with all the folks around. The young people were always up at the Hall and the uncle played tennis with the doctor every fine afternoon. What might you be wanting with them, sir?"

"Our business," Benskin told him, after a moment's hesitation, "is rather private. If you don't mind, we'll leave it for the moment. I'll tell you later on. In the meantime, may my friends and I look over the place?"

Mr. McDougal removed from his mouth the pipe which he had been smoking and struggled to his feet.

"Don't know as there's any harm about that," he assented. "Were you thinking of taking it?"

"Well, I might consider the matter," Benskin temporized. "Certainly it's the most delightful place for anyone who wanted to be quite quiet."

"I built it for myself," Mr. McDougal confided, "but I lost my wife, and rubber treated me badly, so I'm glad to let it for a month or two in the spring or summer and to take a room down in the village. This way, gentlemen."

They went from room to room of the very attractive little abode without finding anything in the least unusual. In the twin sitting-rooms, opening one into the other, Benskin lingered for some time.

"Do you mind looking around very carefully," he asked their guide, "and telling me if you recognise any articles, however trivial, which do not belong to you?"

Mr. McDougal was getting more and more inquisitive.

"Look here," he demanded, "who are you chaps anyway?"

"We're from Scotland Yard," Benskin told him.

Mr. McDougal was faintly incredulous.

"You're kidding!"

Benskin handed him a card and pointed to the badge on his companion's coat.

"We're quite in earnest," he insisted, "and to be frank with you, we want to know something about your late tenants. We'll talk about that later on, though. First look around this room carefully and tell me whether there are any articles left not belonging to you."

Mr. McDougal obeyed, but he was a little dazed.

"Can't see a thing," he announced, "or anything missing either. Paid up everything to the nail. Gentlefolk, if ever I knew any. You're on the wrong track, Mr. Scotland Yard."

"Perhaps so," Benskin acknowledged, picking up a snapshot and looking at it. "We often make mistakes. You see," he went on, turning over some magazines and papers, "if we were too afraid of making mistakes, we should never discover anything."

"Well, if there's anything to be discovered about my late tenants, I'll eat my hat," the loyal Mr. McDougal declared ferociously.

Apparently the late tenants had made a pretty clean sweep of their own belongings, but had displayed, as the landlord again pointed out, the most meticulous care to leave behind everything of his. They made a tour of the outbuildings, after which Benskin induced him to take a seat on the portico.

"Tell me the names of these tenants of yours, please," he begged.

"Mr. and Miss Craven-Stewart, the young people, and Mr. Bellamy, the elderly gentleman," was the prompt response.

"And did they give you bankers' references?"

"Never asked for them. They called round here one day in a Rolls-Royce car, saw the sign 'To Let', looked over the place, and slept here that night—gave me banknotes for a month in advance. They brought down a manservant and a maid from town next day, and I sent two girls and a boy up from the village. The two young ones joined the golf club straight away and they've been hard at it ever since."

"Do you mean that they haven't left the place?"

"They went up to London two or three times, I believe," Mr. McDougal confided.

"I want you, if you can," his companion urged, "to remember those dates. This is very important."

"Well, one was a fortnight last Wednesday, another was the Wednesday before, and last Sunday they were up too. All three went together—old Mr. Bellamy drove the car. I don't know what time they came back, but they were at golf in the morning."

"How many cars did they keep?" Benskin asked.

Mr. McDougal hesitated.

"Well, they never had but one at a time—there isn't room for more in the garage—but I noticed that twice they drove away in one car and came back in another. Made me think they must have a house and garage somewhere in London."

"You haven't had any address of theirs in London, I suppose?"

"Can't say that I have. I had no need for one. Their money and their company were quite good enough for me and everyone else round here."

Mr. McDougal's manner was almost hostile. Benskin made a few notes and closed his pocketbook.

"You won't mind if I use your telephone, Mr. McDougal?" he asked.

"You can use what you want to," the other replied, "but it's pretty certain you're on a wrong egg."

Benskin smiled at him ingratiatingly.

"Try and remember, Mr. McDougal," he begged, "that we shouldn't be giving you all this trouble unless we had some cause for it; neither would your tenants have disappeared without, a word of warning, as they have done, just because I paid them a chance visit yesterday, unless there had been something queer about them."

Mr. McDougal was momentarily thoughtful.

"What are you telephoning about?" he enquired.

"I'm telephoning," Benskin confided, "for our finger-print expert. You noticed that I locked the door as I came out. I want you to leave the place just as it is for twelve hours. Afterwards, we shall have completed all the investigations that are necessary."

Mr. McDougal nodded.

"Can't go against the police," he admitted, "but much good may it do you! Look who's here!"

A two-seater of very sporting appearance swept in at the drive gates. A girl in golf clothes leaned out of the car.

"Where's Miss Craven-Stewart, Mr. McDougal?" she called out. "I've been waiting for her up at the links."

"All gone up to London."

"Mr. Craven-Stewart too?"

"The whole lot of them."

"What an extraordinary thing!" the girl exclaimed. "I suppose they'll be back in time for dinner?"

"They didn't leave any message," Mr. McDougal replied.

Benskin stepped forward, hat in hand.

"Madam," he said, "do you mind telling me your name?"

"Certainly," she acquiesced, looking at him in surprise. "My name is Strathers—Lady Helen Strathers. I live in the village."

"May I ask whether you have known Mr. and Miss Craven-Stewart long?"

"Is that any particular business of yours?" the girl rejoined coldly.

"To some extent it is, Lady Helen."

She hesitated. Benskin's manner was sufficiently impressive. "I have only known them since they came to live here," she admitted.

"You were not introduced to them by mutual friends or anything of that sort?"

"No, I just called because I liked the look of them."

"You know nothing about them, then," Benskin persisted, "except that they took this cottage as strangers and you called upon them?"

"That is so," she acknowledged, with a faint note of defiance in her tone. "They are very charming people and I am very fond of them both."

Benskin raised his hat once more.

"If you see them when they return, will you tell them I called?" Lady Helen enjoined, turning to Mr. McDougal, as she pressed down her self-starter. "I'm expecting them both to dine with me to-night."

They remained silent until the car disappeared.

"You see," Benskin pointed out, "you none of you know a thing about these people, delightful though they may be."

Mr. McDougal rubbed his forehead. Side by side with an increasing confidence in this quiet-mannered man, doubt was beginning to dawn upon him concerning these charming tenants of his.

"It's a rum go!" he confessed.


CURIOUSLY enough, the Sub-Commissioner still remained unimpressed with regard to the three mysterious tenants of "The Small House." He listened almost indifferently to Benskin's account of their abrupt departure.

"I dare say they're up to something," he admitted, "but you know very well how our records stand to-day. You can't point to any trio of criminals who are doing dangerous work and with whom we are not in touch—especially three answering to your description."

"That's quite true, sir," Benskin acknowledged, "yet we can't get away from the fact that the young man was on the point of shooting me when I blundered in. In fact, he'd have done it, if the girl hadn't taken the cartridges out."

"Bluff, perhaps," Major Houlden suggested.

"But I can assure you, sir, that it wasn't bluff," Benskin persisted. "He drew on me for all he was worth. I heard the click."

"Over six feet, you say," Houlden mused, "of the gentlemanly type."

"Persona grata with Lady Helen Strathers and her household," Benskin added. "The same breeding, I should say, without a doubt."

"What about the girl?"

Benskin was silent for a moment.

"I should think she's outside it all," he said slowly.

"She can't be," Houlden objected, "if she knew that the young man was up against it so hard that the chances were he meant to shoot you if she hadn't fixed his revolver. Then, what about Uncle Jo?"

"A criminal, if ever I set eyes on one," Benskin declared. "I know that semi-philanthropical type. Clever, too, they must be," he went on. "There they were, thoroughly established. Identities unquestioned in a quiet country place like that! If I hadn't stumbled in upon them, they'd found a hiding place safer than any slum in Europe."

"You haven't been able to trace what became of them?"

Benskin shook his head.

"That itself shows they're no ordinary trio," he declared. "They probably went south, turned the car over to an accomplice and doubled back wherever they wanted to go to."

The Sub-Commissioner studied for a few moments a list on the table before him.

"Don't think, I'm unsympathetic about your little adventure, Benskin," he said, "but it just happens that there isn't a single undetected crime which is worrying us just now which could be traced to any one of those three, and the man we want more than any one else, as you know, is Gollenstein. He's a vulgar, savage brute, and we've definite information that he's in Paris."

"Out of the question," Benskin admitted. "He wouldn't fit in anywhere."

"Then the only other big thing we're up against," Houlden continued, leaning back in his chair, "is this simply hideous succession of burglaries. Still, we've got the description of the man now and things have been quiet for the last few weeks. You say your young fellow was over six feet?"

"Several inches."

"Well, we know our man is something like five feet one," the Sub-Commissioner reminded his subordinate. "No, I'm afraid I can't take much interest in your desperadoes, Benskin. I don't find a place for any one of them. You wouldn't like to cross to Paris, would you, and have a try for Gollenstein?"

"I'd rather stay here for a week or ten days, if you don't mind, sir. Gollenstein never interested me and I haven't got the line upon him these other fellows have. Besides, I'd like to know what has become of my friends. I've nothing particular to go on, of course, but I've searched every inch of the cottage and there were just a few little things which interested me."

"Go your own way," the Sub-Commissioner enjoined tonelessly.


FOR a week or more, Benskin's activities were directed in a somewhat peculiar fashion. He spent his afternoons and the greater part of the mornings wandering about Grosvenor Square, Park Lane, Berkeley Square, and the other fashionable regions of the West End. He displayed an inordinate curiosity concerning any of the palatial edifices in these districts which boasted a courtyard behind, and he continually referred to a snapshot which he carried in his pocket. Whatever may have been in his mind, however, he met with no success. The photograph which he had extracted from the waste-paper basket in the sitting-room of "The Small House" was without a doubt a snapshot of the back quarters of a London mansion of very considerable size. He failed, however, to identify it. The first progress on a quest which, even to his obstinate mind, seemed to be becoming hopeless, came to him entirely by accident. He was having tea with an acquaintance after watching the polo at Ranelagh one Saturday afternoon, when a middle-aged woman and a girl with a little train of followers passed across the lawn. Benskin, who had been bored to death by his companion, suddenly thanked God for him.

"You know everyone, Percy," he said. "Tell me who the woman is, with the wonderful pearls and French gown—the one with the rather pretty, athletic-looking girl?"

Benskin's vis-à-vis made a wry face.

"Same thing," he declared, "whenever you see any one carrying the wealth of the Indies about with her—she's American. That's Mrs. Husset Brown—just taken a house in London. Millions and millions and millions. Not bad-looking, either. They say she's had five husbands. She's giving an evening party to-morrow."

"Do you know the girl with her?" Benskin enquired.

"Know her by sight, but forget her name," the other acknowledged.

"Whereabouts is Mrs. Husset Brown's house?"

"Number 14b, Curzon Street—used to be called 'The Millionaire's Nest.' Want a card for her 'do' to-morrow night? Her secretary offered me a dozen."

"I'd like one," Benskin accepted. "Do you mind if I clear off? They seem to be rather drifting this way and I'm not keen about being recognised."


BENSKIN drove his little car back to town and pulled up at the corner of Shepherd's Market. He plunged into the network of streets behind, and in a very few moments his curiosity was gratified. He glanced once more at the snapshot before he replaced it in his pocketbook. Then he made his way back to the spot where he had left his car, so deeply engrossed in thought that he ran into Major Houlden without noticing it.

"Damn it all!" the latter exclaimed irritably. "You've trodden on my toe! Just as I was going to offer you something for your thoughts too!"

"You shall have the thoughts without the recompense, sir," Benskin replied. "I was just coming to the decision that chance is greater than circumstance."


OUTSIDE the gorgeous sleeping apartments of Mrs. Husset Brown, comfortably ensconced in an easy-chair, with an empty supper tray on a round table in front of him, a box of cigars and a pile of evening papers by his side, sat Mr. Peter Bracknell, the famous detective from New York, who was never more than fifty yards from his august mistress, and whose boast it was that not for ten years, although she travelled about with millions of pounds' worth of jewels, had she lost a single safety-pin. His dark eyes were clear and sleepless. His senses were all fully awake. The stairs which led to the sacred apartment were lit and visible. Upon the table, within easy reach, was a six-shooter, stale from disuse.... But, outside the house, up that long, grey stretch of perpendicular stone, strange things were happening. Sometimes it was as though a black lizard was stretched flat against the wall. Then again as though a sable monkey was leaping from one small balcony to another. Then a rope of silken cord swung in the air and some strange animal crawled hand over hand a little higher. All the time the rain drove through the black night. The darkness seemed impenetrable. Mr. Bracknell, in the corridor, smiled. He was reading the account of the last baseball game between New York and St. Louis. Mrs. Husset Brown slept soundly. She heard nothing of the creaking window, purposely left ajar, now a little more and a little more open. The increased current of cold air failed to wake her. It may have been because she had taken the last drink with two very delightful young friends, connected with many members of the British aristocracy.

A strangely clad black form crept into the room, a little slit of white where the face might have been—nothing else—the costume of an acrobat. Mrs. Husset Brown began to snore. Outside, Mr. Bracknell chuckled. A wonderful home run that! And up to the side of the bedstead stole the slim, black figure. There was the snip of a pair of scissors, the loosening of a key from a limp wrist, the swinging open of a safe door. There they were! Emeralds which had graced the throne of a queen—out of the window, into the bowl of darkness. Silence! The aim had been good. Back again. Diamonds from the neck of the one woman who had conquered the great Argentine millionaire. Down they sparkled and glittered through the blackness. And once more they reached their goal. Back again. There were the pearls of the great Empress, shimmering ghostlike through the dimly lit room. Out they went—again to their goal. A handful next time—lightly treated, but the diamond bracelet had taken years to match, and a royal crown was the poorer for the emeralds in the great pendant. Finished! Outside there was the faint sound of the striking of a match as Mr. Bracknell lit another cigar. Mrs. Husset Brown groaned in her sleep. The safe door swung to on its well-oiled hinges. Back again into the darkness a black-clad figure stole, the window was pushed gently to its former angle, never a moment's hesitation, over the verandah, hand over hand by the silken cord, a pause on the next balcony to release the grappling-iron, a crawl along a perilous cornice, a second's lingering on a balcony where the rails were a little shaky, another descent, a sprawl against the wall, a slow lowering brick by brick. Again the grappling-hook, another swing through the air, a pause, the slim left hand gripping the iron of the bottom balcony, the release of the hook, a light jump to the ground.

"My cloak, Alan!" the breathless figure whispered.

But it was neither her cloak nor Alan's hand which held her. The light from the torch in his fingers flashed momentarily out. The throb of the motor behind the wall was there, but it was a different note. In that spasmodic illumination, she looked into the face of the little man who had blundered through the French windows of the cottage at Cawston and whose life she had without a doubt saved. Even in that moment, with the rain beating on the pavement under their feet, the wind screaming round the corner, the blackness, impenetrable, enveloping them since the light of the electric torch had been dimmed, she kept her head.

"So you were hunting us, after all," she whispered.

"Sheer luck," he murmured. "Here!"

He stooped down, and picked up what was little more than a sodden mass from the ground—her cloak—and wrapped it around her. He pushed his torch into her hand and pointed to a postern gate at the end of the mews, which stood ajar.

"We've got the jewels," he confided, "we've got that brother of yours, we've got Uncle Jo. They're in the cells by this time. Take your chance if you want it."

"Benskin the detective!" she gasped.

"You saved my life," he muttered shamefacedly. "I'm only a man."

She laughed softly, leaned towards him, and he felt the light touch of her lips upon his cheek. Then she was gone, up the mews, like a flying bat.... Benskin returned to headquarters to report his partial failure.</story>