<story title="THE GREAT WEST RAID" date="1928">
PETER BENSKIN sat up in bed a few mornings later with a sudden start. He turned on the electric light and glanced at his watch. It was twenty minutes past four, and the telephone bell by his side was ringing violently and insistently, with a weird note of alarm in its call through the darkness. He took off the receiver and recognised with a thrill the Sub-Commissioner's voice, hoarse and agitated.

"That you, Benskin?"

"Yes, sir."

"Get down to Warren's Stores as quick as you can. Matthew's out again. Bad business, I'm afraid."

"Coming right away, sir."

In a quarter of an hour Benskin had picked up a stray taxi and was driven to Brampton Road. He found one of the side entrances of the great emporium open, and the moment he had entered the place he realised the atmosphere of tragedy. There was indeed something darkly dramatic in the strange scene—the vast room, with many of its show-cases covered with linen spreads, the shadowy spaces where the lights had not been turned on, the little groups of men talking in eager, subdued voices, the three bodies, crumpled up and grotesque upon the floor—two in their watchmen's uniform, dead—the third struggling to make a last statement to an inspector kneeling at one side, whilst the doctor held his hand on the other. In the far corner near an open door, through which came faint gleams of the approaching dawn, an inspector was seated with a telephone on a small table before him, barking out quick, imperative orders. The dying man, looking around, recognised Benskin and summoned him feebly. The doctor held a restorative to his lips, and, after a moment's gasping for breath, he gripped Benskin's coat sleeve feverishly.

"You're Scotland Yard, ain't you?" he said. "I know. Listen! There was only three of them doing the real work. The rest were just packing up and getting the stuff away. They all wore masks, but they were big men, and they moved—just like them dolls, as though they were on springs. I got mine just here, by that third show case. He came around the corner sudden. 'Put 'em up'. he shouted. I suppose I'm wishing now that I had, but I didn't. I got him—"

The man's breath for a moment failed him. The doctor wiped his lips. He continued, a little more faintly:

"I got him fairly in the mouth with my fist—thought he was going over and then I'd have been on top of him. He just staggered back, and out came his gun, and that was the end of me."

"Did you see what the masks were made of, or notice any peculiarity about either of the burglars?" Benskin asked.

The man shook his head feebly.

"They moved about like ghosts, sir. Rubber soles, black clothes, masks that fitted as though they'd been pasted on to 'em. They didn't disturb the lights. Their torches were all they wanted to see with. It was Jim who tumbled to what was going on first. We met down here at three o'clock as usual, and he see'd a white flame burning in the office where they were firing the safe, and directly afterwards we heard a rumble as the door fell open. He jumped and started for the alarm—got within a foot of it too, but with his hand all ready stretched out to bang the knob, they shot him dead, and he went over—Jim did—like a sack of carrots. There he lies, yonder. Never moved again."

The man's eyes were half closed. There was a brief, ghastly silence. The doctor shook his head.

"It's about finished," he announced.

Benskin leaned down a little closer.

"Don't talk any more," he whispered kindly. "Are there any messages you'd like to send?"

The man opened his eyes again. It was only a thin thread of voice which came from his lips, but it was curiously distinct:

"The old woman's dead," he said. "Never thought I'd be thankful for it, but I am now. I've been in two burglaries—but I never see'd anything like this. There were seven bags full of jewellery from the floor upstairs. They just worked the lift, and brought them down as cool as you like—never hurried at all, never spoke—just like b——y machines they were. As fast as they brought the stuff down, there were men waiting in the yard, who took it over to the shed. They must have had a waggon there. Perhaps, after this," he concluded, his voice dying away, "they'll let us chaps carry a gun. Instead—shot down like sheep we was."

The last word or two had come lingeringly from the man's lips. The doctor bent over him and covered his face with his handkerchief. Benskin scrambled to his feet. A lump had risen in his throat, but there was no time in those tense moments for regret or sentiment. He made his way to the corner where the watchman had struck the blow, and, with an electric torch in his hand, made a close search. There were a few drops of blood near the show case, and, amongst the kicked-up dust where the masked man had staggered and recovered himself, a small, white object, inset with a glittering morsel of metal—a man's front tooth which had been dropped, and the fang of which was still red. He wrapped it carefully in a piece of tissue paper and placed it in his pocket-book. Afterwards he continued his search, but without avail. There was no other memento of the encounter.

Six o'clock struck, and a slow, unwilling daylight was bringing faint relief to the gloom of the streets outside. Police ambulances had arrived and the bodies of the dead men were reverently removed. A crowd of curious loiterers in a side-street was continually being dispersed by the police. The managing director of the firm, Sir Thomas Callender, sleepy but agitated, arrived in his car from Richmond and bustled into the small office where Major Houlden, the Sub-Commissioner, and Benskin were talking.

"A terrible business, this, gentlemen!" he exclaimed. "Terrible! Is it true that three of the watchmen have been killed?"

"I'm afraid it is," the Sub-Commissioner admitted.

"And they've got away with a lot of stuff?"

"For the present, yes," was the regretful reply. "They've taken it off in one of your own vans too, and a limousine. What we should like from you, sir, as soon as you can let us have it, is some idea as to the nature and quantity of the stolen goods."

"I'll have a look round," Sir Thomas proposed. "The heads of the jewellery department will be here by now."

He hurried off. Benskin and the Sub-Commissioner walked slowly once more around the warehouses.

"I don't see that there's anything more we can do here," the latter remarked thoughtfully. "Our finger-print experts are working on the show-cases, and Hovell has taken every possible photograph of the footprints in the dust. They've rifled seven safes, cleared out God knows how much jewellery, and they haven't left so much as a hand-file or a collar-stud behind them. Benskin, you know whose work this is, of course?"

"Matthew's," Benskin groaned.

His companion nodded.

"There's no other criminal out of prison," he declared, "who could possibly have organised an affair like this. The detail of it all is perfection. The Brompton Road police were never for a moment suspicious. The sergeant tells me now that he was sure a crawling taxicab gave signals whenever the coast was clear so that they could get the bags across. When the van came out, the man on point duty simply thought that some one was making an early move into the country. There might never have been an alarm at all if he hadn't noticed the three men in evening dress in the limousine following it. He thought that was queer, strolled around to the back door, which was properly locked, stood on a case, looked in through the glass transom, and saw the bodies on the floor and the whole place in confusion. Benskin, what was the last news you had of Matthew?"

"I saw him three nights ago, sir," Benskin confided.

"Saw Matthew? Where?"

"Coming out of the Ambassadors' Theatre. I had dined late at the Ivy. I go there occasionally, because from something I once heard I fancy that it used to be a favourite haunt of his. Afterwards I crossed the street to watch the people coming out of the theatre. I always imagine, I don't exactly know why, that Matthew's a theatre-goer. Just as I arrived there, a man was handing a woman into a car. There was nothing familiar about his appearance at first—I don't even know why I watched him. He was well turned out, well set-up, good-looking, everything correct, silk hat in his hand as he helped the woman in, and then, as he took his place beside her, he half turned and looked at me. He couldn't resist it. He laughed in my face—half a laugh and half a sneer. It was Matthew all the world over, and then the limousine shot away. I jumped into a taxicab, but it was hopeless. All I know is that on the Embankment the car turned eastward."

"It isn't much," the Sub-Commissioner observed.

"It's something," Benskin murmured.

The managing director reappeared. He was more agitated than ever.

"The whole thing is inconceivable," he exclaimed. "The burglars must have known every inch of the place and every particle of stock. Three quarters of our best jewellery is missing and seven of our safes, with their cash reserves, are absolutely rifled. I should put our losses down at something like a quarter of a million."

"Any insurance?" Houlden asked.

Sir Thomas shook his head.

"A firm in our position," he said a little stiffly, "is not able to insure itself, unfortunately. Now, tell me please, Mr. Sub-Commissioner—Major Houlden, isn't it?—tell me just what steps you are taking. I must call a meeting of the directors at once, and report."

"We've commandeered your telephone down here," Houlden confided, "and they've been given Government priority. The whole of what we consider the thieves' highway, from Aldgate eastward, is being watched and searched. Every police station in London is looking out for the car and the van, and we've fifty motor cyclists on the roads. So far as we can, we've drawn a cordon around every thoroughfare. Reports come in every few minutes to the inspectors in charge of each district, and if it's anything important, we are notified at once."

The managing director nodded approval.

"Seems as though you ought to get them, eh?" he remarked anxiously.

"We hope so," Houlden agreed, "but you must remember, Sir Thomas, that these are no ordinary thieves. Their plans inside the place seem to have been perfectly framed and carried out, and no doubt they've arranged for the getting away just as thoroughly. Their danger spot was turning into the Brompton Road here without exciting suspicion. Once away from the immediate neighbourhood, there are a good many tricks they might play. Unless we have definite news within the next few minutes, I should think the odds are in favour of their reaching their first hiding place. It's when they try to deal with the stuff that I fancy we may have our chance."

"What about a reward?"

"It wouldn't make a shadow of difference, so far as the force is concerned," Houlden replied. "We'd all give our next promotion step to lay our hands upon the man who planned this coup. On the other hand, it might bring an informer in."

"I'll discuss the matter with my directors," Sir Thomas promised.

"Yon needn't lay too great stress upon it," the Sub-Commissioner advised him. "In any ordinary case, I should recommend it, but I don't fancy there's a criminal, or an ex-criminal in Europe, with courage enough to inform against the man we have in mind."

"Why the mischief not?" Sir Thomas demanded a little irritably. "You can give him police protection, I suppose?"

The Sub-Commissioner nodded gravely.

"Yes," he admitted, "we could do that. The time would come, however, when he'd want a little freedom, a chance to spend the money. They all get like that. We can't protect them against themselves. We have a small black book, Sir Thomas, which the Chief Commissioner keeps, and in it are the names of four men and two women, who, at different times within the last seven years, have found their way to Scotland Yard to inform against the man we have been talking about. They've had their money, or a part of it on account, and we've had their information. We scarcely knew their names. They drifted back into their own world, but not one of the six lived a week after having visited Scotland Yard. Two were returned as suicides, two were found drowned, the Coroner's inquest on the other two was 'Death at the hands of some person unknown.' They wouldn't accept police protection. They thought they could get away with it. They never have done; I don't think they ever will. Offer your reward by all means, Sir Thomas, but if it is an informer who claims it, he is looking for a quick form of suicide."

Sir Thomas was impressed, but inclined to be a little sarcastic. "I suppose I ought to feel my establishment honoured by the attentions of such a paragon of crime," he remarked.

The Sub-Commissioner rose to his feet. Streaks of sickly-looking morning light, tempered with fog and a drizzling rain, were finding their way into the room. Outside the sound of traffic was increasing.

"We'll move our headquarters to Scotland Yard now, Benskin," he announced.

An inspector presented himself at the door of the office and saluted.

"Telephone message just in from Woking, sir," he reported. "A plain van, answering to the description of the one we're after, has been found in the lane leading down to the golf course."

"Found? Do you mean that there was no one with it?" Houlden demanded.

"No one at all, sir," the man replied. "I think it's the one we're after, though. There was a card pinned on to it with a bit of writing:


"Kindly return this van to Warren & Co., Brompton Road, who will remunerate."

The inspector coughed; he was not quite sure whether a smile would have been in order.

"Well, I'm damned!" Sir Thomas exclaimed.

"That's Matthew!" Benskin muttered.


THE Press ran riot, excelled themselves in superlatives, and trotted out every time-worn phrase to blacken their headlines. A new era of scientific crime was prognosticated. No place henceforth would be safe. The guards at Buckingham Palace and the other treasure houses of London must be doubled. The SUPERMEN had come—the SUPERMEN of Crime. . . . Meanwhile police headquarters were stonily silent. They made no announcement, gave no hope. The very fact of their indifference to popular clamour was in a way encouraging. Yet the fact remained that, after four days of eager investigation and diligent combing of every criminal-frequented haunt in London, no arrest had been made nor any single clue discovered except that empty van with its impudent message. The Chief Commissioner, who was writing a book and was reputed to take no interest whatever in crime, became alarmed at last and sent for his second in command.

"Is it true, Major, that we are up against a force of superior intelligence to our own?" he enquired drily.

"Equal, at any rate, Chief," was the cool reply. "All this breathless search we are conducting is necessary, of course, but the odds are a hundred to one against any useful results. We are up against the same gang who personated Lord Ellacott and Howson the tennis player, and then robbed them. They are not ordinary criminals at all. We have the names and addresses of a hundred and thirty-two of what we call Class A burglars and misdemeanants on our books. We have to put these through a process of elimination, but, as a matter of fact, not one of them is likely to have ever seen or heard of the men we want."

"What are we going to do about it?" the Chief Commissioner demanded. "The public expect protection from us and they're beginning to wonder whether they're getting it. First the Ellacott and Howson burglaries—both on the same night—and then this hideous affair, you know. You'll have to change some of your head men, Houlden."

"Not just at present, Chief, if you please. Remember, we as nearly as possible got the Ellacott and Howson gang the same night. They only slipped through our fingers by a miracle."

"The miracles seem to work only one way," the Chief Commissioner grumbled. "What am I to say to the Home Secretary?"

"Let me talk to him if necessary, sir," Houlden begged. "The relative positions between us and the criminal world are entirely changed now and the sooner we recognise it the better. Years ago, before all these recent scientific inventions, and before the educated classes took up crime, the odds were all in our favour. To-day, the whole situation's altered. Given a certain type of intellectual who chooses deliberately to serve his apprenticeship and embrace crime as a profession, and the odds are in his favour, as against us."

"That's the sort of home truth the public would never accept without an outcry," the Chief Commissioner warned him. "It's a dangerous admission for any one in your position to make anyhow, Major."

"It's the truth," Houlden pronounced doggedly, "but it isn't so terrifying as it sounds. I say that, take every enterprise singly with the luck being even, the odds are in favour of the criminal, but when it comes to bringing off, say half a dozen affairs, the odds increase against him every time. The public know all about it when our coup comes off and we really get the man, but I assure you, sir, that if we could publish an account of everything that happened the night of the Ellacott and Howson burglaries, Scotland Yard wouldn't seem such a dud institute as they are trying to make us out."

"Who is the man you're pinning your faith on?" the Commissioner enquired.

"A fellow named Benskin, sir. Not much to look at, I'll grant you, but thoroughly sound. The most dangerous type for the criminal. He's a plodder, and yet he has inspiration and isn't afraid to make use of it. He'll get our man yet, sir, if they'll only let us alone."

The Chief Commissioner, although he was only half satisfied, brought the interview to a close. His second-in-command returned to his room and sent for Benskin.

"The Chief's had me on the carpet," he confided. "Any news?"

Benskin was looking a little pinched. The routine work of the last few days had been a strain.

"This morning," he recounted, "I had my first success. I have either been to see, or communicated with, a hundred and forty dentists."

"Didn't know there were so many in the world."

"I found one this morning down in the City who treated a man with a tooth knocked out on the day after our affair. I have just come back to look through some records."

"What type of man was he?"

"His name was given as Ellis. He's a leather factor of Endale Street, Bermondsey. I've seen the warehouse. It's a neat little place just on the edge of the commercial district and next to a couple of empty houses. There is a brass plate on the door, with the name of the firm on it—Ellis and Humphreys—and there was a dray taking some merchandise away. I daren't go in myself, of course, but I put the place under observation and I can hope to get a description of the partners to-day or to-morrow. That particular dray, by the by, was a disappointment. I had it followed to Liverpool Street Goods Station, but the cases contained nothing but leather, addressed to some manufacturers of children's boots and shoes—Chittuck and Baynes of Norwich."

"What about this man Ellis?" the Sub-Commissioner enquired. "Is he in the records at all?"

"No mention of him," Benskin acknowledged. "I don't take any notice of that, though. Solomon was a highly respectable man, so was Vanderleyde, so was Wheatley. The game over here seems to be for Matthew and his friends to create identities through their subordinates, which they can assume when necessary. This firm of Ellis and Humphreys, for instance, may be conducted for that purpose, and that purpose only. If I'm on the right track, it probably does a certain amount of genuine business, the two partners, subsidised by Matthew, really exist, and when he comes along and needs an identity to shelter himself behind, there it is all ready for him. This is my theory, at any rate, and it's the one I'm working on."

"What's the next step?" Houlden asked. "You haven't evidence enough to raid the place yet, have you?"

"Not yet," Benskin admitted, "nor am I thinking of calling on Mr. Ellis to enquire about his tooth. To-morrow, however, I shall get some further information about the place. I have a friend who's a small shoe-manufacturer in the East End; I did his son a good turn once and he is only too anxious to pay it back. He is going in to buy some leather and have a look around. If he brings me the sort of information I want, I shall take out a search warrant."

"You haven't much to go on at present," the Sub-Commissioner warned his companion.

"Perhaps not," Benskin acknowledged, "and yet," he added, "when I'm on a clue I like to believe in it—it gives one confidence. I can't bring myself to believe anyhow that there were many men who needed a front tooth replacing on Thursday morning, and fewer still, I should think, who would choose to go to a complete stranger to have it done. My dentist had never seen Mr. Ellis before in his life. Had to have my teeth scaled to get him to talk—nasty, painful job."

Major Houlden smiled.

"Well, I will say this for you, anyhow, Benskin," he remarked, "you are thorough."


BENSKIN, dressed with less care than usual, as though to bring himself into touch with his surroundings, sat before a marble-topped table in the saloon bar of the Three Kings public house, near London Bridge, with a pipe in his mouth and a half-pint of beer in from of him. The walls were hung with advertisements of various forms of drink and the floor was adorned with spittoons. The atmosphere reeked with the odour of stale liquor and sawdust. To him, in due course, entered Mr. Moses Klein, a shoe-manufacturer from the Bethnal Green Road, an Hebraic-looking person with black, curly hair, and wearing what might have been a very fine diamond ring on his dirty third finger.

"Vell, vell," the latter exclaimed, with a rather overdone start of surprise. "Fancy meeting you in these parts."

"Sit down and have a drink," Benskin invited.

There was a brief interregnum of general conversation, during which Mr. Klein discoursed upon the state of business, the high price of leather, the health of his wife and son, and others of his family. As soon as the refreshments were served, however, he leaned forward in his chair.

"Funny sort of show," he confided. "Send no travellers out and like to do their bithneth for cash. Suits me all right, when I've got thomebody else's cash to pay with."

Benskin nodded.

"You shall give just what the stuff's worth," he told him. "We'll make up the difference."

"It will be about fifteen per thent," Mr. Klein said cautiously. "You thee. Mr. Benskin, I buy very cheap, because I pay cash. They like my money, these leather men. Ith good money, Mr. Benskin."

"No doubt, but not quite so much of my name, please," the latter warned him, dropping his voice a little. "Tell me some more about the place,"

"Vell, they've got some stock, but they don't theem to know much about it," the other continued. "I buy a bill of goods, about forty pounds, but the funny part of it wath that they didn't theem to care much whether I bought or not. Not like me when I take my boot-catheth out."

"Think," Benskin begged, "was there anything about the place itself which struck you as being different from an ordinary warehouse?"

Mr. Klein reflected.

"Vell, there were a good many people hanging about for a small bithneth, and except for one man upstairs, and another down, they none of them theemed to know very much about what there wath to thell. One of the bosses came out of the officth and thpoke to me, but he didn't theem to take any interest in what I wath buying. Now, when I go in anywhere else to buy goods, the bosses take off their coats and try to thell everything in the place. I think he wath upthet, though. He had a little accident."

"What sort of an accident?"

"He gave me a good thigar," Mr. Klein explained, "lit one himthelf, and thpat a front tooth out. Just had it put in, he thaid."

For a moment Benskin sat quite still. Notwithstanding the sordidness of his surroundings, it was for him a brief period of unadulterated joy. Then he pushed his tankard away, ordered fresh ones for his guest and himself, and relit his pipe.

"Moses Klein," he said, "you owe me a good turn, don't you?"

"Ain't that why I'm here?" the other rejoined reproachfully. "I didn't want to come buying no leather from a thtick-in-the-mud firm like Ellis and Humphreys."

"Then just remember everything you can about that man Ellis's appearance. I've got to know exactly what he looked like."

Mr. Klein accepted his second tankard and warmed to his task,

"What he looked like," he declared, "wath a toff. He wath wearing clothes like they wear in those thwell warehouses in St. Thomas' Street, where they've got capital that runs into hundredth of thouthandth of poundth. Kind of a black coat, linen as though it had just come out of the laundry bathket, pressed pants, patent boots, and a gold thigarette case thticking out of hith pocket. He got no hair on his face, queer sort of eyes that theemed to be wandering about all the time, and one of them black felt hats with the top squashed in, like Rachel—that's my wife—wanth me to get. He looked a great deal too much of a toff for a thmall firm like they must be."

Benskin held out his hand.

"We're quits, Klein," he said. "I'm glad I got your boy off that day. Drink up your beer and then I must go. I want you, if you don't mind, to just get me a taxi. I mustn't be seen in these streets for an hour or so."

Mr. Klein obeyed cheerfully, and Benskin, making his way to London Bridge Station, spent ten minutes in a telephone booth, and half an hour over a luncheon which he was grimly aware might be his last on earth.


IT was an evil afternoon down Bermondsey way. There was no absolute fog, but a mist had driven in from the river, and, combined with the drizzling rain, had created an atmosphere of obscurity and drear depression. With the electric light turned on in his little office, Mr. Ellis, proprietor of the firm of Ellis and Humphreys, with the help of an envelope-cutter and a waste-paper basket, dealt at lightning speed with a mass of correspondence arrived by the foreign post, a correspondence which seemed a little excessive for the state of the business. By his side, watching keenly, and every now and then accepting one of the letters passed on to his keeping, stood the pseudo Mr. Humphreys, lank, lugubrious, yet alert, at times singularly reminiscent of Mr. Amos Wheatley, the cotton millionaire. They reached the end of the pile with only muttered words passing from one to the other. Then Mr. Ellis leaned back in his chair.

"You know how to deal with the letters you have," he said. "Take them down to Riverside Street and attend to them there."

Mr. Humphreys glanced curiously at his partner.

"Anything wrong with this place?" he enquired.

His companion tapped a cigarette of fragrant quality upon the desk and lit it.

"Nothing actually wrong," he admitted. "I've got one of my psychic fits, that's all. I feel there's something moving around us I don't understand."

He touched a bell. A salesman in a linen overall answered the summons.

"Britten," he asked, "what was the report about that man Klein who was in this morning and bought some goods?"

"Perfectly straightforward, sir," was the prompt reply. "He has a small business in the Bethnal Green Road—been there for four or five years. He's a shoe-manufacturer all right—a Jew too. Just the type who goes about trying new places to buy a little cheaper."

"Did he seem curious—ask for any other goods—make any remark about the stock?"

"Nothing to excite any suspicion, sir," the salesman assured his principal. "The only thing he did enquire twice about was whether we had any American offal for sale."

"You didn't take him down to the cellar?" the latter asked quickly.

"No, sir, I told him that we didn't stock it—not in our line at all."

Mr. Ellis reflected for several moments.

"You're a practical man, aren't you, Britten?" he asked. "Our predecessors here insisted that you knew all about the business."

"I ought to, sir. I've been in the trade for over twenty years."

"In this man Klein's class of manufacturing, should you have thought that he would have used American offal?"

"No, I don't think I should," Britten acknowledged thoughtfully. "Max delivered the goods and had a careful look around. He certainly had no heel-building machinery."

Mr. Ellis scowled into space. Customers asking for American offal were very unwelcome visitors in Endale Street just then.

"How many barrels are there in the cellar?" he asked.

The man counted upon his fingers.

"Twenty-seven."

"Well, they're sold, and we may as well get them out of the way at once. Address the labels—Mr. Jacob Rubel, Leather Dealer, Barcelona. Telephone for a dray and have them delivered on board the Juanita, lying at Riverside Street Docks, this afternoon. And, Britten?"

"Yes, sir."

"If that fellow Klein comes in again, I'll see him myself."

"Very good, sir."

The man hurried off. Mr. Ellis opened the door and glanced out. In the warehouse was gloom and silence. In the far distance Britten was speaking into a wall telephone to the railway company. He stepped back into the office.

"What's the trouble?" his partner asked him again. "No warnings in, are there?"

"Not a word," the other acknowledged. "By all the rules of the game, we should be as safe as though we were in the clouds. I doubled the watchers yesterday. Ludoff himself has a taxicab outside the big warehouse at the corner. No one could escape him. It's this damned weather gets on my nerves. Carry on here for a time, Maurice—don't go to Riverside Street."

The principal of the firm walked into the warehouse, and, pushing open a swing door at the further end, crossed another room apparently full of linen-shrouded merchandise. At the far end was a door let into the wall and almost unnoticeable. He opened this by touching a spring, passed along a passage, descended two steps, and with a Yale key opened a second and more formidable-looking door of sheet iron. Here he stepped into a different atmosphere. His feet fell upon a soft Turkey carpet. He touched an electric switch and revealed a very delightful man's sitting room, the only drawback to which seemed to be a curious absence of windows. A correctly attired manservant came hurrying in.

"No reports?" Mr. Ellis asked swiftly.

"Nothing at all, sir."

"Both wires in order?"

"Absolutely, sir. I tested them a few minutes back."

"Go and see if Ludoff is still on his taxicab."

The man disappeared for a moment and returned.

"Still there, sir."

"The car is in the shed?"

"The engine has been going since eight o'clock, sir. Francis is at the wheel. He has fixed a new number plate and there are two spare ones under the cushions."

"I'm clearing out for a time," Mr. Ellis announced abruptly. "Everything in order at Riverside Street?"

"Everything, sir. Were you thinking of moving there?"

"For a night or two, perhaps," his master decided thoughtfully. "Take every precaution, but if you're sure the coast is clear and there's no one hanging around, come down at eight o'clock. I want to go to the opera to-night, if possible."

"The usual code warning, sir, if there's anything disturbing?"

Mr. Ellis nodded.

"They won't be changed until to-morrow. Mix me a strong brandy cocktail, Morrison."

The man crossed the room noiselessly, opened a handsome walnut cabinet, produced the necessary bottles, with some ice from a zinc pail, and a silver shaker. Mr. Ellis drained the contents of a beautiful Venetian glass which was handed to him a minute or two later and turned away. Outside the door he hesitated and took a fateful decision. Instead of making his way back to the warehouse, he suddenly descended a narrow flight of stairs, and disappeared.

The drayman with his load of twenty-seven barrels, and a very satisfactory tip in his pocket, rumbled up Endale Street, crossed Market Street, and on his way along St. Thomas' Street was mildly surprised by a signal to stop from a uniformed policeman who stepped out from the kerb.

"What's wrong, Governor?" he asked cheerfully. "Ain't exceeding the speed limit, am I?"

A man in a mackintosh buttoned up to his chin, who had been loitering behind the policeman, stepped forward.

"Obey orders quickly," he directed. "I am Detective Benskin of Scotland Yard and there are several others of us here. Turn up under that arch to your right and stop at the second lamp."

"Crikey, Guv'nor!" the man exclaimed, as he whipped up his horse. "I ain't stolen these barrels, I can promise you that—just got 'em from Ellis and Humphreys in Endale Street. Ain't nothing wrong with them, is there?"

"We are going to see," was the terse reply.

The dray, followed by the policemen and Benskin, was driven on a few yards and turned in under one of those great gloomy arches, tubular chasms of mystery and darkness. At a sign from the policeman, who jumped on to the step, the driver brought his horse to a standstill under the second of the flickering, insufficient lamps. Down some dank, stone steps came clattering half a dozen more constables, one of whom produced a bag of tools and mounted the dray. Its driver lit his pipe.

"My Gawd!" he muttered between his teeth, and wondered no longer at the magnitude of the tip which reposed in his waistcoat pocket.

The top of the first barrel was soon off. Inside were closely packed fragments of reddish-brown leather, which had evidently been cut through by a machine and left in odd strips, here large, here small. From top to bottom two stalwart policemen thrust in their hands and emptied the contents of the barrel on to the dray. When they had finished they stood up, waiting for instructions.

"Another one," Benskin ordered.

They got to work and repeated the process. This time, however, they were barely halfway through when one of the policemen uttered a little exclamation. From his fingers dangled a necklace of glittering stones. They all gathered around to stare at it with fascinated eyes—a cascade of falling light, glowing and fading with the flickering of the poor illumination. Then Benskin's voice was heard, sharp and incisive.

"Four of you guard the dray. Bicycled police far Endale Street. Rush the warehouse and have your firearms ready."

A dozen men or more hurried to the bicycles which were leaning against the wall. Benskin himself leapt into a small police car which seemed to have made a miraculous appearance. In less than five minutes it drew up outside the wide-opened doors of Messrs. Ellis and Humphreys. A warehouseman, flicking some sides of leather with a feather brush, looked up enquiringly at their entrance, but made no effort to stop them. Benskin was the first to mount the stairs and push open the door leading to the office. Britten, in his long linen duster, was apparently engaged in sorting some skins at the counter. The only other occupant of the place was a man seated at a desk, typing some letters. Benskin, with his automatic in his hand, and stooping a little as he ran, crossed the floor in half a dozen strides.

"Hands up!" he shouted, and his voice was like the crack of a revolver shot.

Mr. Humphreys, of Ellis and Humphreys, looked longingly at the drawer towards which his hand had wandered. Then he glanced into the steely blue eyes of the man who stood just out of reach, noted the tension of the forefinger, and his hesitation vanished. He raised his hands high above his head.

"Is this a hold-up?" he asked calmly. "We have fourteen pounds and a small bill of exchange in the safe."

"Be quiet, Amos Wheatley, or whatever you call yourself down here!" Benskin interrupted. "Where's the chief?"

The shadow of a smile flickered across those grim lips,

"He had a psychic feeling," was the dry response.


THAT night the evening papers were full of the dramatic recovery of a large portion of the jewellery stolen in the great night raid upon the Kensington emporium, the capture of one of the leaders of the gang, and the detention of a number of its subordinates. Scotland Yard regained all its former prestige, compliments were showered upon the police, and leading articles acclaimed their acumen. Benskin was warmly congratulated by the Chief Commissioner and almost embraced by Houlden. Photographs appeared everywhere of the bogus warehouse and the secret abode adjoining it, which, without a doubt, had been one of the headquarters of the great criminal organisation. Nevertheless, Benskin slept with a sob in his heart, for, somewhere under the murky skies, Matthew was smiling.</story>