<story title="TWO GAMBLERS" date="1901">
SOCIETY was very considerably astonished when Sir Francis Cleydon, Bart., married the orphan daughter of a rich Australian planter, and suddenly exchanged the life of a man from town for the healthier but less exciting one of a country squire, society was very considerably astonished. The moral part of it expressed unbounded satisfaction and approval at the unexpected salvation of a man who had seemed to be going to the bad as fast as a man could go. The immoral faction sneered at his weakness in being led away from the lofty career of the pursuit of unlicensed pleasures by a girl's sweet face, and prophesied his speedy return to their ranks. They did not for a moment believe that his defection was a permanent one; their experience failed to recall to their minds a single case of a man who had gone as far on the road to ruin as their late confrère had done, and had yet been able to pull up short and abjure for ever the ways of unrighteousness. For six years Sir Francis had been the most reckless of turf plungers, and an almost nightly habitué of those clubs and private houses where the green tables form the principal part of the entertainment.

Other vices he had, but this latter one seemed to fascinate him the most, and for years men had spoken of him as a confirmed gamester. His losses had lately been as much the topic for gossip as on his debut his wealth had been, and already every one was prophesying the near approach of the end. He had spent a huge fortune, and his fine estates were heavily mortgaged. They could bear no more charges, and the final crash seemed just about to descend, when, without the least warning or notification of his intentions, the whole of his racing stud, his London house, carriages and horses, and sundry other possessions, were advertised for sale, and his marriage with Miss Golding and retirement to Cleydon Hall announced in all the society papers.

No one was more surprised than Sir Francis himself. He had lived so long amongst a school with whom it was considered d la mode to be blase and used up, that he had almost forgotten that he possessed any feelings at all. It was quite a new sensation to him when he fell in love with Helen Golding; it speedily became a revelation. He felt himself suddenly galvanized into life from the dull lethargy into which a long course of palliating pleasures had plunged him.

At heart he was not a bad man, nor was he naturally vicious. His follies had been the not unnatural result of a slovenly guardianship on the part of a sporting uncle, and a careless, slipshod education. They had grown into habits, and he had yielded to them, never altogether without compunction; but the first breath of a good woman's influence, even though she was little more than a child, had awakened him into a keen and shameful realization of the miserable emptiness and folly of his grovelling life. He had wasted no time in irresolute regrets. He had confessed his whole life to Helen Golding, but he spoke of it as a thing of the past. He did not plead for her love as the price of his reformation, for that was a thing already assured; he only begged her to wait for a little while, and forget the Sir Francis of the past when the Sir Francis of the future should offer himself to her.

She felt that he was sincere, and did not attempt to conceal her love for him; and before he left her it had been decided that the period of probation might be dispensed with. It would be easier for him as a married man to break off at once all connection with his former life. And so in less than a month they were married; and, while London was still agape with the news, they were wandering through Italy, and Sir Francis was realizing for the first time what happiness really was.

Those sneering prophecies which Sir Francis's quondam associates had freely indulged in were not verified. The Leicestershire baronet never again formed one of their coterie, nor, indeed, did he ever feel the slightest inclination to do so. His reformation was sincere and complete, and his love for the woman whom he looked upon as his preserver was steadfast and unwavering. One only of his former tastes had survived the death-blow of his marriage, and with that one he had fought many desperate battles, and in all cases came off the victor. He had been reckoned a confirmed gambler, and, indeed, there had been in the old days no more ardent worshipper at the shrine of the green table than Sir Francis. It had become a passion with him, and several times since his marriage he had been horribly tempted. During his honeymoon he had shunned Monaco and other gambling centres, with the nervous dread inspired by his unwilling knowledge of the fascination which they still had over him; but subsequently his wife had unsuspectingly bidden him take her there, and he had been compelled to face a horrible temptation. He was nervous and ill at ease during the whole of their stay, scarcely venturing out of the hotel, and turning pale at the very mention of the gaming-tables.

At first Lady Cleydon had thought him ill; but suddenly the truth dawned upon her, and she had declared at once that she was bored to death and longing to be away. Her husband heard her with joy, and when they left Monaco the next day he left it with the feeling of a conqueror. Since then they had been careful to avoid such places without hinting to one another why, and as years passed by, and local interest grew stronger with him, Sir Francis began to congratulate himself that the battle at Monaco had been a final and decisive one. Lady Cleydon's fortune, although a large one, had been insufficient to totally free the Cleydon estates from all encumbrance. There had been a third mortgage which it had not been possible to redeem; but when, two years after their marriage, a little Francis was born, his father and mother at once determined that it must and should be paid off before the boy grew up. It was not an easy matter to save a little over thirty thousand pounds even out of such a rent-roll as the Cleydon estate showed, for times were bad and farmers were all expecting large abatements. It was done, however; and by the time the boy reached his tenth birthday the money was forthcoming, and in a week's time Sir Francis and his wife reflected with satisfaction that the mortgage would be no more.

One morning during that same week Sir Francis stood on the steps of the Cleydon Arms, smoking a cigar and lounging slightly against the side of the door. It was very seldom that he honoured the inn which bore his name (or the name of the estate) by his presence, still more seldom that he chose to advertise it by lingering about in the doorway; and the delighted proprietor, who remained discreetly in the rear rubbing his hands, and ready to rush forward at any moment if addressed, felt that every minute his distinguished guest remained there in that easy posture, in full view of the loiterers in the little town and right opposite the rival hostelry, was worth pounds to him. His sole regret was that Braggs the butcher, and Sneed the baker, and other frequenters of the Cleydon Arms were not present to witness this phenomenon; but even this regret was tempered by the reflection of how he would be able to embellish this unwonted occurrence, and astonish his little company with it at their evening meeting.

Sir Francis himself was quite unaware that his presence was creating such a commotion in the mind of his obsequious host, and was lingering there simply because, until the blacksmith had finished shoeing his horse, he had nothing better to do.

Presently it began to occur to him, however, that he was the object of a good deal of respectful curiosity on the part of the passers-by, and that his position was a trifle conspicuous. Accordingly he roused himself from some very pleasant meditations anent that scrip of legal parchment which he hoped soon to thrust on the fire, and decided upon a stroll down the street to the smithy. Before he had quitted his position, however, a figure approaching on the opposite side of the way attracted his notice, and he paused. Strangers were not common in Cleydon, and the man who was coming slowly towards him was not at all an ordinary stranger. He was tall, and of unmistakably well-bred appearance, with the slight stoop of a horseman, and attired in a riding suit and cover-coat of no provincial cut.

He favoured the loiterer on the steps with a bland, inoffensive stare as he passed him and entered the inn, but that his face invited no salutation, Sir Francis would have bidden him good morning promptly. When he had disappeared the baronet turned round and interviewed the landlord.

"Know that gentleman?" he inquired, indicating with the end of his cigar the stairs up which the stranger had passed.

"Certainly, Sir Francis. He's taken the whole of the first floor, and all my stabling for the hunting season. Honourable Bernard Granville's his name, Sir Francis. Got some very pretty animals, too, and looks like a straight goer."

Sir Francis was necessarily interested, for he was the master of the principal pack of hounds in the locality, and a very good master, too.

"Take my card up, Bowles," he told the landlord. "I should like to make Mr. Granville's acquaintance." And, delighted at the notice accorded to his guest, Bowles hurried obediently away.

Mr. Granville would be very pleased to see Sir Francis. And so the baronet was shown up into the sitting-room and announced with all pomp. The two men speedily fraternized. The most important consideration—who was Mr. Granville? —was satisfactorily explained in the first few minutes. The Granvilles of Somerset were a county family of undoubted respectability, members of whom, indeed, graced the pages of Debrett's Peerage, and to a younger branch of them Mr. Granville belonged.

This question settled, there was some desultory conversation about horses, dogs, cattle-breeding, and other agricultural matters, concerning all of which Mr. Granville seemed to know a good deal, and Sir Francis began to consider him a very decent sort of fellow. He explained that he had come down a fortnight before the opening of the regular season, meaning to spend the intervening period with an old friend, Colonel Ashton, but, unfortunately, Ashton was dangerously ill, and could receive no visitors, so he had been forced to occupy his hunting quarters earlier than he had intended. Sir Francis winced a little at the mention of Colonel Ashton's name, for he was notoriously a member of the fast set to which he himself had once belonged, but he did not on that account abate his favourable impressions of his new acquaintance. He had lived so long amongst rustics that the conversation of a well-bred and well-informed man was particularly pleasing—so pleasing, indeed, that, when he rose to go, he pressed Mr. Granville to return with him and spend at Cleydon Hall the period which he had intended to spend with Colonel Ashton. This Mr. Granville at first refused to do, but eventually he agreed to return with Sir Francis to dinner, and leave the matter of his further stay for subsequent discussion.

With Lady Cleydon Mr. Granville did not progress quite so well. She wondered what had brought the crow's feet and wrinkles into his otherwise young looking face, and she made a very shrewd guess as to their existence in conjunction with a pallid, almost sallow complexion. Still, she was, of course, civil to her husband's guest, and when she left them together to discuss, as she fondly imagined, the claret and the prospects of the approaching hunting season, she did so without any presentiment of evil. And yet, had she only known it, the Honourable Bernard Granville was the most dangerous man in England to leave alone with her husband.

For a while the two men chatted pretty well in the manner which she had anticipated; then Mr. Granville asked his host a fatal question.

"Do anything at écarté?" he inquired carelessly, toying with a dessert knife.

Sir Francis started quietly, and a shiver ran through his entire frame. The old passion was not yet dead.

"Not lately," he answered in a low tone. "I think we have no cards in the house."

Mr. Granville looked astonished. A country house which did not boast a single pack of cards was an anomaly such as he had rarely come across.

"Oh, as for that," he answered, "I have plenty in my portmanteau; but perhaps it's hardly worth the trouble of fetching them. Suppose we go in to Lady Cleydon instead," he suggested, drinking off his claret and rising.

Sir Francis was in the toils of a horrible temptation. Surely it was his duty to entertain his guest; a few hands could do no harm. Supposing he was unfortunate, he could afford to lose a hundred or two; and side by side with these plausible reflections was the old longing to handle once more the cards and experience the hopes and fears of the player. It was too strong for him.

"Lady Cleydon will scarcely expect us so soon," he remarked, hastily pouring out a glass of wine and drinking it off. "I should rather like just one game. Couldn't my man find the cards."

Mr. Granville shrugged his shoulders.

"Just as you please. I think there's a pack of cards in my great coat pocket. It hangs up in the hall."

Sir Francis rose to his feet.

"Well, fetch them, then," he said, with an excited sparkle in his eyes. "Come across into the library, Granville; we shall find it warmer there."

Mr. Granville rose, and having leisurely lighted another cigar followed his host across the hall into a smaller apartment. Sir Francis drew a small table up to the fire, and the two men seated themselves. At first the play seemed pretty even, but after a while the luck set steadily against Sir Francis. So far from causing him to desist, however, this seemed to render him more eager. He plunged, doubled the stakes, trebled them, but the result was always the same. Great beads of perspiration began to stand out on his forehead, and he dared not glance twice at the I.0.U.'s which he was constantly handing across to his adversary. At last the latter threw down the cards.

"I don't know whether you fully realize, Sir Francis," he said in a slow grave tone, rendered a little tremulous by the excitement which he was struggling to conceal, "that I have won an exceedingly large sum of money from you. I shall play no longer; the luck is all on my side."

"You will give me my revenge?" said Sir Francis eagerly. "Let us go on now."

"Certainly not," replied Mr. Granville, rising and collecting his I.O.U's; " don't you see that it is quite light? This evening, if you like, you shall try to relieve me of some of those," and he tapped the little bundle of papers which he held with his forefinger.

About an hour later Lady Cleydon was awakened by a slight noise in her room. At the foot of her bed stood her husband, with ghastly face, bloodshot eyes, and disordered attire. He stood there, in the full light of the early morning sun which was streaming in at the window, with folded arms looking at her.

"Francis," she cried, a dreadful fear settling down upon her, "what have you been doing?"

He laughed savagely.

"Gambling, Helen, gambling! A thousand curses upon the cards! I'll win it all back to-night, though! By God, I will! We'll pay off the mortgage yet! What a fool I was to double that last stake with the luck dead against me!"

She sprang up, her eyes ablaze with wrathful indignation.

"Francis, have you been gambling with that money?"

His eyes fell before hers, and he turned towards the door.

"Ay, and lost it!" he said sullenly. "I'll win it back, though; I'll win it back!"

She turned from him, her face full of loathing scorn. She uttered no words of reproach, no reminders of his broken vow. She spoke never another word, and he slunk away like a whipped dog.

That was a miserable day at Cleydon Hall. Sir Francis went for a long ride, and did not return until late in the afternoon. His guest lunched alone, and spent the afternoon strolling about the park, and Lady Cleydon did not leave her room until evening. When her husband returned, she followed him to his room.

"Francis," she pleaded, laying her hand upon his arm, "grant me a favour."

He listened without speaking.

"What is done cannot be undone," she continued softly. "Promise me not to play to-night, and we will forget everything else."

He shook his head. "Impossible, Helen. If I have to pay that man what I lost last night, I should never have another happy moment. I shall win it back."

Again she pleaded, but in vain. Then she left him; instinct told her that words would be wasted. Bernard Granville was lounging in an easy chair in the library, when the door opened, and admitted his beautiful hostess, for Lady Cleydon was a very beautiful woman still.

He rose at once, and offered her a chair. She declined it, and remained standing on the hearth-rug, nervously toying with a bracelet.

"Mr. Granville," she said abruptly, "you won a good deal of money from my husband last night."

He bowed. "Sir Francis was certainly most unfortunate," he remarked.

"I have come to ask you a favour," she went on hurriedly. "I want you to go away, and not play any more with him. You have won a fortune from him already. Isn't that enough?"

He looked at her steadily for a minute or two. With her large blue eyes, and simple, eager manner, she seemed almost like a child.

"I have promised to give Sir Francis his revenge," he said quietly, "and I am bound in honour to do so."

Her heart sank, but she did not lose courage.

"Will you come with me?" she said, moving towards the door. "I want to show you something."

He followed her in silence along many corridors and up many stairs. At last she paused, and opened the door of a large, lofty room.

"Francis, I have brought some one to see you," she said.

A fair-haired little boy, with his mother's large, blue eyes and his father's straight, well-cut features, bounded over towards them. Then, remembering his manners, he held out his hand to the visitor, and looked up shyly.

"How do you do, Mr. Granville? I know your name, you see, because we saw you in the park this afternoon, and nurse told me."

Mr. Granville nodded.

"It's a very beautiful park," he said, somewhat absently.

Little Francis agreed with him, and then turned to his mother. Presently she checked his flow of eager, childish conversation, and declared that they must go.

Mr. Granville shook hands with his little host, and silently followed her out of the room and down into the library. She closed the door, and moved close up to his side.

"Mr. Granville," she said earnestly, "I would not have taken you up there only that there is something in your face that I like. I am sure that you can be generous. I want you to put yourself in my place for one moment. I don't know whether you ever heard about my marriage; I should think not," she said, looking at his old-young face, guiltless of beard or moustache. "You cannot be very old, and it was some years ago. Sir Francis had been a gambler, and he was heavily in debt; but he promised never to touch a card again. I trusted him, and until last night he has kept his promise faithfully. For years we have been saving and pinching to free the estate from debt for little Francis. Last night has undone it all. Of course, you only did what any one else would have done," she went on hastily. "You won, and you had a right to win. I am not blaming you in the least; but, oh, if you would only go away now! If you go on playing you will win. I am sure you will; and—and—my poor little Francis, Mr. Granville; I took you up to see him because I thought you must have been something like him once, and you might think of that time and have pity on him. Fancy what your mother would have felt like if some one had threatened to ruin her little boy! Oh, do go away, Mr. Granville! I will never grudge what you have won! I—I will always think kindly of you, and bless you if you will go. You will, won't you?"

He looked down at her with an odd look in his boyish face.

"You ask a difficult thing, Lady Cleydon," he said, "for I am what your husband was—a confirmed gambler."

"But you will go?" she pleaded breathlessly. He shook his head. "I can't refuse to give him his revenge," he said; "but—"

"But what?"

"On one condition I will promise to win no more money from him."

"What condition?"

"Simply that you will come and sit with us while we play."

She shuddered; but her resolution was soon taken.

"I consent," she said. "Now take me in to dinner."

It was a strange meal, and no one was sorry when it was over. Sir Francis, indeed, was recklessly gay; but both his wife and his guest were strangely silent. When the time came for Lady Cleydon to retire she kept her seat. Her husband looked at her questioningly.

"You are determined to play to-night?" she said quietly.

"Certainly. I am going to relieve Granville of a few of his pieces of paper," Sir Francis said, with a nervous attempt at jocularity.

"Very well, then," she replied; "I shall remain too."

Sir Francis protested querulously, angrily; but in vain. When they went into the library, Lady Cleydon followed them, and established herself in an easy-chair before the fire.

The game commenced, and proceeded hour after hour with the same result. The tide of luck seemed to have turned in favour of Sir Francis. One by one his I.O.U.'s were handed back to him, and were flung into the fire; at last there remained but one. The cards were dealt. Granville led; and Sir Francis played the king, and won the piece of paper.

He rose to his feet, pale, trembling, but determined.

"Granville," he said huskily, "we are quits, I believe."

The other nodded.

Sir Francis seized the pack of cards in his hand, and dashed them into the grate.

"Thank God!" he exclaimed. "Helen, look up. You will forgive me? This has been a lesson to me, and I am cured at last. Never again shall a card pass through my fingers. Need I swear it?"

She looked up, with a great relief in her face, and then turned round full of gratitude to Mr. Granville. He was leaning forward against the table, with his head buried in his hands. Scarcely noticing her husband, she rose, and, gliding noiselessly to his side, touched his arm.

"Mr. Granville!"

He shrank from her and started to his feet.

"Lady Cleydon," he said hastily, in a tone so full of agony that it brought the tears into her eyes, "don't speak to me! Don't come near me! Keep away, and listen."

The hard look had gone from his face, and he looked almost like a boy. He had moved to the other side of the table, and was leaning over towards them.

"Lady Cleydon," he said hastily, "I have a confession to make. You think that I'm a gentleman. I ought to be; but I'm not. I'm a blackguard and a card-sharper!"

Sir Francis started; Lady Cleydon never moved, but her soft blue eyes remained fixed upon him, full of a gentle pity.

"I will tell you a little of my story," he went on. "If Sir Francis lived in town, he would have known it, and he would not have received me here. I haven't deceived you about my name. My name is still Granville, although my family have offered me money to change it more than once. I was a younger son, and never had a penny of fortune. For that reason, I suppose, my father sent me into the Guards, and expected me to live like a gentleman on my pay. I became fond of cards, became skillful, and soon began to depend upon them to keep me. It was all very well for a time; but by degrees men began to get shy of playing with me, and gradually whispers began to get about that I—I cheated. It was a foul lie," he went on passionately; "but people believed it. I was obliged to leave the regiment, and I sank lower and lower. My luck began to desert me, and I was at my wit's end. Then Colonel Ashton told me that you had once been a desperate gambler, and now lived quite away from the world. I came to Cleydon for the sole purpose of ruining you if I could. You brought me here, and last night for the first time in my fife I played with marked cards. I was sorry for it; and, Lady Cleydon, it was you who made me feel that if I did not undo what I had done I should be miserable for life! If I had kept that money I should have gone to Australia, and tried to live a new life; but I'm glad I didn't keep it. You can turn me out of the house now if you like, Sir Francis," he said, with a bitter smile.

There was a long silence, then Lady Cleydon rose and moved to his side.

"Mr. Granville," she said, "no one will turn you out of this house. Will you shake hands with me?"

He looked at her wistfully, incredulously. Then suddenly his lower Up grew tremulous, and he burst into tears. He was but a boy after all.

That last mortgage was not paid off until the following year, for Sir Francis and his wife found another use for a small part of the money. It was not much that Bernard Granville would accept as a loan from his new friends, but it was enough to win him fortune and honour in the new world. And the letter which Lady Cleydon gave him to her uncle and quondam guardian, Mr. Golding, won him something far more precious—a true, loving wife. He had loved her first for her sister's sake, but very soon for her own; and when the steamship Oceana deposits her passengers at Liverpool next week there will be a long-looked-for family party at Cleydon Hall.</story>