<story title="A COMEDY IN DIVORCE" date="1927">
NEITHER Mr. Peter Bragg nor his partner, the Honourable George Vincent Angus, will ever forget the moment when their client, Mr. Matthew Makepiece, having been formally announced, seated himself in the customary chair, made careful disposal on the carpet of a pair of thick kid gloves, a grey felt hat of outrageous shape, a formidable-looking ash walking-stick, and, finally, pulling down his waistcoat, opened up the business of his visit.

"May I enquire if you gentlemen are specialists in divorce?"

"Divorce?" Peter Bragg repeated, a little doubtfully.

"Divorce?" Angus murmured, with a faint note of wistfulness in his tone.

"That's what I'm after," the other announced. " I'm a country man. Maybe you've judged that by my clothes. I live down in Cambridgeshire and I've made a tidy bit of brass, fruit farming. I've been on the Town Council for fifteen years and I'm an alderman this day."

"Indeed," Peter Bragg murmured. "As a matter of fact," he went on, "divorce is not one of our specialities."

"Maybe you can put me on the right track," Mr. Matthew Makepiece observed, producing a huge bandanna handkerchief from his pocket and regarding it thoughtfully—"me and my missus—well, why shouldn't I have her in?"

"Where is your wife?" Peter Bragg enquired.

"I left her on the mat outside," Mr. Makepiece replied, rising to his feet and crossing the room. "Here, Martha!" he called out. "You come in!"

A woman who seemed ordained by nature to be the wife of Matthew Makepiece promptly entered. She was inclined to be stout, with a pleasant face, blue eyes and masses of rich brown hair, and she wore the clothes of the best draper in a small country town. She seemed doubtful about dropping a curtsey, but refrained. Angus placed a chair for her.

"You see," her husband continued, "we've been married twelve years, me and the missus, and what I say is twelve years with one woman's enough for anyone."

"That's what I say, too," Mrs. Makepiece assented, smoothing out her skirt. "Don't let there be any mistake about it. We're both of the same mind. If so be as they'd chosen to make Matthew mayor this November, why I'd have waited one more year and willing. But there ain't any sign of such a happening. He's not pushing enough, isn't Matthew."

The maligned man blew his nose.

"There's wheels within wheels in political circles," he confided solemnly, "and there's things I could tell about the sneaking ways down in Sleeford that'd open some people's eyes. Howsomever, it's mil that we're here to talk about."

It was a slack morning with the firm and Peter Bragg was mildly amused.

"Can't you explain a little more clearly what it is you want," he suggested. "It appears to me that you should have gone to a lawyer."

"Lawyers!" Mrs. Makepiece scoffed. "Nice fools they be! We went to old Mr. Parton, in Sleeford, and he just laughed at us. He didn't seem to understand matters right and proper. He said divorces weren't for the likes of us. Why not, I should like to know? Why should the aristocracy have all the liberty? A divorce is what we want and we've got the money to pay for it."

"Good for you, old lady! " her husband approved. "See here, Mr. Bragg," he went on, "I've got a pal what knows the ropes, and he told me how to go on. 'What you want,' he said, 'is first to make up your minds which is to divorce the other. Then, if it's you, you takes a young gal down to some seaside place, books a double room in your own name, keeps the hotel bill so as to have it ready, and there you are!' "

"But I don't quite understand," Peter Bragg ventured. "Have you two quarrelled?"

"Quarrelled?" Mr. Makepiece repeated. "I'm not saying as there's been anything to quarrel about exactly."

"Except the way you've been put back from being made mayor because of the time you spend in 'The Three Crowns,'" his wife declared.

"Or the way you can't keep a servant-girl for longer than a month, scolding all the time," her husband countered.

"These details are of no consequence," Peter Bragg intervened. "As a matter of fact, you seem to both want a divorce without either having any adequate reason for it."

"What I say," Mr. Makepiece insisted, "is that twelve years is long rnough to live intimate with any female. At the end of that time, if you haven't quarrelled serious, it's best to part and have a look round, so to speak."

"A look round!" the lady snorted. "You've been doing that all the time."

"And what about Tom Brown a-hanging about the place until I can't bear the sight on him?" her husband demanded.

"I'm really afraid," Peter Bragg pronounced, "that I am not in a position to help you. My advice to you would be to continue as you are. You've both been married long enough to understand one another's ways, and you will probably be far less happy with anyone else. Besides, there is the money question."

"There bean't no money question," Mr. Makepiece declared. "I took stock last Christmas and I'm worth all of sixty thousand quid, Besides the house and a good bit of farming property. What I say is I'm willing to give the old woman twenty thousand pounds, and with that she can find another husband if she wants one, or live alone comfortable and decent."

Mrs. Makepiece showed signs of becoming indignantly eloquent, but Peter Bragg hastily intervened.

"I can do nothing for you," he decided. "I should advise you to go to a lawyer and see what he has to say."

His clients were evidently disappointed.

"What they did tell me was," Makepiece persisted stubbornly, "that a private detective was the man I wanted—that any decent firm would have 'em in stock, so to speak—co-respondents of either sex."

"And had you decided," Angus enquired, with a suspicious twitch at the corners of his mouth, "which of you was to divorce the other?"

"Going to toss for it. The old woman's idea."

Mrs. Makepiece cast a shy but admiring glance towards Angus.

"I don't know as I mind which it is," she admitted, "so long as I can choose my own co-respondent—look him over first, so to say."

Peter Bragg, who was really a very well-behaved person, gave vent to sentiments, of a high order.

"Mr. and Mrs. Makepiece," he said, "you are very foolish people. You have come here on an absurd errand. I recommend you to go back to Sleeford and forget it. If you carry out your insane project you will have to seek assistance in some other direction."

Mr. Makepiece—a little crestfallen—picked up his hat and other belongings—his wife, with obvious reluctance, also rose to her feet. She glanced once more at Angus.

"It's a pity," she sighed.

"Come along, Martha," her fellow conspirator enjoined. "We're wasting the gentlemen's time. I reckon we'll take our business where they ain't so independent."

They took their leave. Angus leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily.

"Who shall say that our profession is without its humorous side?" he demanded. "I think we might have touched the old man for a little of his sixty thousand, Pudgy."

"An affair entirely beneath our consideration," Peter Bragg replied with dignity. "Besides, they'd have wanted to make it up again before they ever got into Court."

"Still, fees are fees," Angus murmured. "Someone will soak them all right."

It was about a fortnight later when Angus, paying a flying visit to a famous hotel at a South-Coast watering place, found Mr. Makepiece seated alone and a little disconsolate in the crowded lounge. He was dressed in the same rather loud check suit and his flat-brimmed hat and ash stick were on the floor by his side. He recognised Angus at once and greeted him vociferously.

"Here!" he exclaimed. "Sit down and have a drink, mister. You remember my coming to call on you? The little chap with big glasses wouldn't take my job on. Well, here I am."

"Enjoying your qualifying round, eh?" Angus observed.

"I don't know about that," Matthew Makepiece replied, snapping liln fingers loudly at a passing waiter. "Give it a name, mister."

Angus hesitated. His sense of humour, however, and a certain kindliness checked his first impulse to pass on.

"I'll have a whisky and soda, please," he said. "Where's the lady?"

Mr. Matthew Makepiece became confidential.

"She's a real slap-up 'un—toney as you like," he declared. "Can't say we're getting on as well as I would wish. She seems cross with me because I haven't got a dress suit and she's all the time off dancing with toffs. There she is—her with the yeller hair."

Angus caught sight of the young woman in question and groaned Inwardly. The particular toff in whose arms she was reposing at the moment, was a pallid young man with a hooked nose and black, curly hair. The girl herself was too obvious for description. She was over-rouged, over becarmined—clothes and all she reeked of the Tottenham Court Road. Directly she saw Angus engaged in conversation with her temporary protector, she paused in the dance and came towards them. Angus's heart sank and he regretted the whisky and soda.

"My new missus," Matthew Makepiece introduced, grinning. "Pal of mine, Mr. Angus, Betty."

Angus bowed and indulged in some hopelessly obvious remark. The girl beamed cordially.

"I hope you dance, Mr. Angus," she gushed. "It's so stupid of Matthew not to, isn't it? And to come down without any clothes. One must dress for dinner in these places. It makes such a difference," she went on, eyeing Angus's very correct attire admiringly.

"I used to dance a little, but just at present I've rather a game leg," Angus ventured. " If you don't mind, Mr. Makepiece, I'll let that whisky and soda go and see you later. I have some friends waiting for me."

"Don't hurry," the pseudo-Mrs. Makepiece begged, with a languishing glance.

"We're certain to meet again," Angus replied, taking a polite but firm farewell.

There was still a quarter of an hour before the friends whom he had Invited to dine with him could arrive, so Angus made his way into the bar. He had just ordered his cocktail when he was suddenly aware of something familiar in the appearance of the stout lady seated on the next stool. Her smile of welcome was mingled with a dash of coyness, She held out her pudgy hand.

"You don't remember me," she said. "Mrs. Makepiece, you know. We came to see you—me and my husband—but you couldn't do anything for us."

"I remember you perfectly," he gasped. "You—"

He stopped short. Mrs. Makepiece was dragging at the coat sleeve of a very battered old Lothario who was seated by her side.

"This is Mr. Fortescue," she said—"Mr. Angus. Mr. Fortescue is shall I say my fiancé," she wound up with what was almost a blush.

"My God!" Angus exclaimed under his breath.

"Have one with us, sir " Mr. Fortescue invited.

"I know what you're thinking," the lady went on, brimming over with amiability. "It's about Matthew, isn't it? Of course I didn't know he was coming to the same place, but it don't make any difference that I can see."

"Please excuse me," Angus ventured. "I don't really know much about the divorce laws myself, but you can't both do this sort of thing, you know."

"And why not?" she retorted. "What's good for 'im's good for me."

Angus swallowed his cocktail hastily.

"Very kind of you, I'm sure," he said. "You'll excuse me now, won't you. As I said, madam, I really know nothing about the law. I had a sort of idea that one of the parties had to be innocent."

"And who says I ain't," Mrs. Makepiece demanded, the aigrette in her hair shaking violently.

"The lady, during her visit here, is under my protection," Mr. Fortescue intervened, with a strong Cockney accent.

Angus made a precipitate farewell and hurried off. In a distant corner of the lounge he could see Matthew Makepiece still sitting alone whilst his siren was still whirling round in the arms of her escort.

"What's wrong with you, George?" one of his friends enquired, coming up unexpectedly.

"Something damned funny," Angus replied, "but I shall appreciate the humour of it better when I get a little further away."

Peter Bragg groaned as he laid down the telephone receiver, one morning about a week later.

"Here's your friend, the market gardener from Sleeford, back again," he announced, turning to Angus who had been on the point of leaving. "Put your hat down and support me."

"What, Matthew Makepiece?" his junior partner exclaimed. "Good old sportsman!"

Mr. Matthew Makepiece was shown in. He was still wearing clothes of a conspicuous pattern and country cut, but he had a crumpled appearance. He had the air of a man overtaken by unexpected misfortune. His hair was as stubbly as ever and he preserved something of his swagger. On the other hand there was a gleam of anxiety in his bright, deep-set eyes. He wore the same or a similar hat.

"Servant, gentlemen," he greeted them, with an air of levity which did not altogether ring true. "Here again for a bit of advice, you see. There was nothing doing in fees last time, but I'm ready for you now directly you say the word."

"So far as I remember, Mr. Makepiece," Peter Bragg said, a little wearily, "we were unable to offer you either assistance or advice on your previous visit, and that being so, the matter of fees did not arise."

"A doctor charges just the same when he tells his patient that he can't do him any good," was the blunt reply. "Anyway we'll see about that later. P'raps you can tell me what this is."

He threw a piece of blue paper upon the desk. Peter Bragg picked it up and scrutinised it.

"I am not a lawyer, as you seem continually to forget," he announced eventually, "but this appears to be a citation of you as co-respondent in a divorce case brought by one Ernest Josephs, generally known as Ernest Fortescue, against his wife."

"What the h—— do you think of that?" Mr. Makepiece exclaimed indignantly. "When you couldn't do anything for me I went to a firm who advertised in the Sporting Times, down in Adam Street, off the Strand. They took me on all right. They found the lady and off I went with her. The other gentleman knows all about that," he added, turning towards Angus—"run across him at the same hotel. Not on the same sort of job, I 'ope. Blast! "

Angus nodded.

"I certainly did meet you down at the 'Gigantic!' didn't I?" he said. "But what's that got to do with this divorce case? I see that your wife doesn't seem to be in it."

"Not she!" was the indignant rejoinder. "That'll come later very likely. What's happened now is that the husband of the young lady supplied by the office I went to seems to have brought a citation against me for divorce. Why, I paid the office fifty guineas for 'er to go down with me. I didn't even sleep in the same room. God 'elp me if I did!"

There was a moment's silence. Angus, whose shoulders were twitching convulsively, had turned his head away. Peter Bragg, whose sense of humour seemed to be momentarily dormant, was frowning.

"I cannot see why you have come back to us, Mr. Makepiece," he said, "but since you are here, supposing you tell me precisely what did happen between you and this young lady whom you—er—hired?"

"Here's all that happened," Mr. Makepiece expounded with the air of a man deeply wronged: "I took her down to Brighton first-class, Pullman, drinks in the car, everything slap-up style, booked a room at the hotel with her by my side—Mr and Mrs. Makepiece. We went up in the lift together and as soon as we got in the room she stuck me for a tenner. Mind you, I'd paid fifty guineas at the office, but she said she only got a small share of that, and she wanted something for herself. Well, I gave her a tenner and that was an end of that. Then she began to make a fuss because I hadn't any evening clothes. We had dinner—two bottles of champagne—the best stuff I could find. Then we went out in the lounge and she began dancing with a lot of young rips. I sat there until I nearly fell asleep. When I got up to the room she'd had her clothes moved out and I've never seen her since."

Angus came back into the limelight. His lips were still twitching but he managed to infuse a little sympathy into his manner.

"Damned hard luck," he commiserated. "Anyway, you were well rid of the young woman."

"That's all right, but what am I going to do about this?" Mr. Makepiece demanded, once more producing the paper.

"Tell me the name of the firm of detectives to whom you applied?" Peter Bragg enquired.

"Josephs & Co. Smartish people they seemed, too."

"Very smart indeed, I should think. Still it's not playing the game to provide you with a young woman and charge you full price and then for this sort of thing to happen."

"Well, what can I do about it?" Mr. Makepiece asked.

"Do nothing for the moment," the other advised. "I will confess that I am now more interested in your affairs. I don't care for the firm of Josephs & Co. How long are you remaining in London?"

"Until this matter is settled," was the dogged reply. " I'm me own master, fortunately. My money's being made for me down yonder whether I'm there or not."

"Leave your address with my secretary as you go out," Peter Bragg invited, "and I will send for you as soon as I have decided upon a course of action. You will probably hear again from Messrs. Josephs & Co. before long. If you do, let me know."

Mr. Makepiece picked up his extraordinary hat and took his leave in deep gloom. Peter Bragg leaned back in his chair.

"A sheer case of conspiracy," he announced judicially. "Those people Josephs & Co. are always sailing near the wind."

"I wonder what has become of the dear lady?" Angus speculated.

"We shall see her again," was his partner's confident prediction.

At four o'clock that afternoon, Mrs. Makepiece fluttered in upon them. She was wearing, considering the amplitude of her figure, a ridiculously short skirt and flesh-coloured stockings. The hand of inexperience had applied colour to her cheeks and lips, some minor artist in the profession had shingled her luxurious hair. Angus gasped when she was shown in, and even Peter Bragg was thankful for his concealing spectacles. Only her good-humoured smile remained the same and there was a note of shamefacedness about that.

"Didn't expect to see me again, gentlemen?" she ventured airily.

"I must confess, Mrs. Makepiece, that your visit is a surprise," Peter Bragg replied. " n our previous interview I told you that the business upon which you desired to consult us was not in our line."

"Perhaps this is," she answered, throwing a letter upon the table. "What do you think of that?"

Peter Bragg read through the letter. It was simply a request from a firm of solicitors, carrying on a business in a somewhat obscure quarter, to be favoured with an interview at Mrs. Makepiece's earliest convenience.

"You went?" he enquired.

"I went all right," was the indignant reply. "What do you think the wretches had the cheek to tell me—a miserable-looking, yellow man, with a hooked nose and Jew written all over him? He had the cheek to tell me that a lady client of the firm had discovered that I had spent a week-end down at Brighton with her husband, and that unless I could satisfy her that it was a case of mistaken identity she was commencing an action at once, naming me as co-respondent."

"No other alternative?" Peter Bragg suggested gently.

"That was what those people sent for me for. The man said he didn't want to put it on paper. He thought he could square the lady for a thousand pounds."

"This is very unfortunate," Peter Bragg murmured. "And now tell me, what about your husband's divorce suit? Is he bringing one against you or are you bringing one against him?"

"We've fairly mucked that," the lady declared. "Your young gentleman here gave me a straight tip but I didn't believe it then. I've found out since that he was right. Only one of us ought to have done that week-end business. Now we've both done it neither can get a divorce from the other. We're fairly in the soup."

"Precisely what happened at the Hotel Gigantic between you and Mr.—er—Fortescue?" Peter Bragg enquired.

"What do you suppose happened?" the lady asked defiantly. ''What sort of a woman do you think I am? I let 'em all 'ave a good look at me when I signed the register and we went upstairs. We had the luggage put in the room, and as soon as it was all fixed up I says to 'im—'out of this you gets, my man. I don't share rooms with no one. We've done all that's necessary.' "

"What did he say to that?"

"Stuck me for twenty quid. I'd paid the proper fee, too. However, it wasn't worth while quarrelling about. I'd got to be seen with him at dinner and that sort of thing, so I gave him the money and told him to go down and wait for me in the bar.... I don't see anything to laugh at, young man," she wound up, a little severely, frowning across at Angus.

"But I do! " he exclaimed. "Mrs. Makepiece, you must forgive me, but it is funny—it really is!"

Mrs. Makepiece snorted.

"Well," she said, "there's some as can read Punch. I can't, and I never could. And I don't see anything funny about me having to part with a thousand pounds or getting my name in the papers as a co-respondent or whatever they call it."

"What was your answer to this firm of solicitors?" Peter Bragg enquired.

"I told them I'd take forty-eight hours to think it over, and I hopped it round here. You two seemed decent sort of fellows, anyway."

"Capital! We'll see what action it is possible to take to relieve you in the matter," Peter Bragg promised.

Three days later Mr. and Mrs. Makepiece, in accordance with a brief letter from the firm, presented themselves at Bellevue Mansions. Mrs. Makepiece arrived a few minutes after her spouse, who regarded her abbreviated skirt, her flesh-coloured stockings, her shingled hair and the embellishments of her person with unmistakable admiration.

"You're looking well, old girl! " he remarked.

"You're looking the same yourself, Matthew," she replied, glancing lovingly at the familiar check suit.

Peter Bragg tapped upon the table to attract their attention.

"I have good news and bad for you both," he confided. "Which will you have first?"

"The good news," Matthew Makepiece insisted. "I can't sleep o' nights for thinking of that damned divorce case. Me a co-respondent at my time of life, with a hussy like that, and a couple of thousands pounds to pay as like as not! "

"And me," his wife groaned, "with a nasty, jealous woman trying to make out that I wanted her weedy, worn-out old roué of a husband!"

"I have investigated the matter," Peter Bragg announced, "and you can both set your minds at ease. The letter from the solicitors which you, madam, brought me, was just as much a bluff as the divorce case brought against your husband. It would have been easy to prove that this was a case of attempted blackmail, but as a matter of fact it was easier still to wipe the whole affair out. The lady with whom Mr. Makepiece travelled to Brighton and the gentleman who accompanied Mrs. Makepiece are husband and wife."

"That's damned funny!" Matthew Makepiece muttered, trying to puzzle it out.

"The element of humour again presents itself," Peter Bragg continued, "when one comes to the bad news. Are you prepared?"

"Much as I ever shall be," Matthew Makepiece declared. "Let's have it?"

"Your own scheme and the scheme of your wife for a divorce have been rendered abortive from the fact that instead of one of you compromising yourself and the other suing, you have both compromised yourselves, and therefore neither of you is in the position to sue. I am sorry, but those are the facts."

Mr. Makepiece glanced across at his wife. Decidedly that short skirt was most becoming, and he had never imagined that legs clad in flesh-coloured silk stockings could be so attractive. The hair, too! Why couldn't she have had that cut years ago. That little bit of touching up was just what he had always admired in a woman. He drew a letter from his pocket and threw it carelessly into her lap.

"Just cast your eye through that, Martha."

She picked it up, read it through, and gave a little scream.

"They've chosen you as mayor after all, Matthew! " she cried.

"Got the invitation this morning," he announced.

She rose to her feet, and, with a deep sigh of content, crossed the room and patted her husband's back.

"That divorce was a silly idea, Matthew," she confessed.

He reached for his pocket-book with his disengaged hand.

"How much do we owe you, guv'nor?" he enquired of Peter Bragg.</story>