<story title="LADY KATHERINE'S BETTER NATURE" date="1927">
MR. PETER BRAGG'S expression was without a doubt gloomy. He pushed his letters impatiently on one side and leaned back in his chair, his hands in his pockets and a frown of displeasure upon his rather bushy eyebrows. He even removed his horn-rimmed spectacles and wiped them painstakingly.

" What's wrong, Pudgy?" his friend and partner, the Honourable George Vincent Angus enquired, discarding his Sporting Life and making preparations to face the morning's work by lighting a cigarette and strolling over to his partner's desk.

Peter Bragg made no direct reply.

"It would afford me great pleasure, Angus," he said, "if you would sometimes remember that a nickname applicable at a preparatory school is scarcely in order when applied to a man at the head of a great undertaking and your—er—senior partner."

"Sorry, old chap. Get it off your chest. What's wrong?"

"If there is one class of misdemeanour," Peter Bragg declared, "which makes absolutely no appeal to me, it is a jewel robbery."

"Bit hackneyed," Angus agreed sympathetically.

"Notwithstanding my passion for detective stories," Peter Bragg continued, "such a title as The Lost Emerald, The Rajah's Diamonds, The Missing Necklace, puts me dead off at once even though by one of my favourite authors. There is something about this class of crime which has ceased entirely to appeal to the imagination. Every possible trick in connection with the pilfering of jewels has been made use of and done to death."

"I quite agree. Now what about it?"

Peter Bragg picked up a letter from amongst the heap by his side.

"A distinguished client is arriving within a few minutes," he announced, "to consult us as to the loss of a diamond necklace."

"Who is the Johnny?" Angus demanded. "Do I know him?"

"It is possible that you may," his partner admitted. "It is the Duke of Cumberland."

"Good old Rattles!" Angus exclaimed. "So he's been stung, has he? Any particulars?"

"None whatever," Peter Bragg replied, exhibiting the letter. "His secretary writes that his Grace the Duke of Cumberland will call at ten-thirty this morning to consult me as to the possible recovery of a missing diamond necklace."

"Half-past ten already," Angus observed, glancing at his watch. "I'll go in and have a chat with Miss Ash whilst you receive your august client."

"Nothing of the sort. Without desiring to be unduly critical, Angus, you devote too much of your time to sitting in Miss Ash's easy-chair and interfering with her work."

"Intriguing sort of person," Angus admitted.

"If she is intriguing it is for me to discover the fact," Peter Bragg declared. "She is my secretary, not yours. Personally I have failed to discover the qualities which you suggest."

"She don't let herself go with you. Keeps to the little grey mouse and that sort of thing. She told me only the other day that her idea of the perfect secretary was a colourless and sexless negation. I must say in business hours she plays the part pretty well."

"How much do you know of her outside business hours?" Peter Bragg asked suspiciously.

"There was that night when she came to the Café Guido," Angus reflected. "I tell you, Pu—Peter—she looked ripping. Not the ordinary type of good-looking girl, you know, but something different, something that set you wondering what it would be like to hold her hand and that sort of thing."

"Shut up 1 " the other enjoined. "Here's the Duke."

The Duke was ushered in; a still youthful-looking man, a little tired about the eyes but bearing his forty-two years well enough. He shook hands stiffly with Peter Bragg and recognised Angus with surprise.

"Hullo, George!" he exclaimed. "What are you doing here?"

"Partner in the firm," was the cheerful reply. "I told you I'd got a job."

"You amaze me," the Duke confessed, accepting the client's chair. "I thought that your profession, Mr. Bragg, required a high order of intelligence on the part of its votaries."

"Don't you queer my pitch," Angus grumbled. "My friend doesn't understand chaff."

"Far be it from me," the Duke declared earnestly, "to interfere with any effort you may be making, George, to earn an honest living."

Peter Bragg coughed. He was flattered that his partner should be on such intimate terms with his distinguished client, but he thought it time to assert himself.

"Concerning this loss of your Grace's?" he began.

"It's a damned annoying business," the Duke confided. "I dare say Angus here will appreciate the situation more precisely even than you. These are the facts. Last Wednesday I gave a party at Cumberland House. It wasn't altogether a Bohemian party but it was of that order. My guests consisted of those friends of mine who know how to enjoy themselves and don't draw the line too strictly as regards the conduct of life. You follow me, Mr. Bragg?"

"Perfectly," Peter Bragg assented. "I gather that her Grace was not present."

"Her Grace," the Duke continued dryly, "is on her way home from India. She will arrive within ten days. It is for that reason that the matter concerning which I have come to see you is somewhat urgent."

Peter Bragg nodded. The Duke accepted a cigarette from Angus's case and lit it.

"We danced and played the usual jinks," the former continued. "Late in the evening I showed some of my guests the contents of my jewel chest. A lady who is a very intimate friend of mine persisted in trying on a certain diamond necklace which is an heirloom, and of which my wife is very fond. Rather foolishly 1 let her keep it on for a time. Twice during the evening I asked her to take it off, and each, time she begged to be allowed to wear it a little longer. In the end she slipped away without saying good-night to me, smd when, as the last of my guests were leaving, I was called to the telephone, she spoke to me from her house in Hertford Street. I need not detail the conversation. She told me that I owed her a birthday present, which was perfectly true, and that she had decided to keep the necklace. Then, she rang off."

"Have you made any attempt to see her since?" Peter Bragg enquired.

"Naturally. I have been to see her twice-once with my lawyer. She simply treats the affair as a tremendous joke. 1 have never been parsimonious in my gifts, and she cannot understand that this particular necklace is the property of the Duchess and cannot be disposed of."

"The lady has claims upon you?" Peter Bragg asked bluntly.

The Duke had the air of finding the question impertinent, but after a moment's hesitation he answered it.

"She has," he admitted. "I have never refused any ordinary request of hers. This is a different matter."

"Are we," Peter Bragg ventured, "to know the lady's name?"

"I imagine that that will be necessary. It is Lady Katherine Somerby."

"Good old Kate!" Angus murmured under his breath.

"I can understand," the Duke remarked a little coldly, "that the humour of the situation may appeal to you, George, but I want you both to understand that I am in deadly earnest. I want that necklace back again."

"Are you prepared to go so far as to prosecute the lady?" Peter Bragg enquired.

"I am not," was the curt rejoinder. "If I were I should have gone to Scotland Yard instead of coming to you. The circumstances of our friendship make such an action on my part impossible. Nevertheless, I repeat that I want the necklace back again."

Peter Bragg reflected for a moment.

"I presume you have tried all ordinary methods? For instance, you have offered Lady Katherine her choice of other articles of jewellery?"

"I have made every effort of that sort. It is the necklace and nothing but the necklace with her."

"Lady Katherine is a difficult nut to crack," Angus mused.

"She is a lady of determination," the Duke acknowledged. "She has announced her intention of taking a trip to the States in three weeks' time. It is my opinion that she is going there in order that during her absence the matter will have time to blow over."

"Are Lady Katherine's jewels insured?" Angus asked.

"Not to my knowledge," the Duke replied. "I have never heard her mention the fact."

"Are there any other particulars," Peter Bragg enquired, "which your grace could impart likely to help us in our efforts?"

"I can think of none. All obvious methods seem hopeless. Her maid, for instance, has been with her for fifteen years and is a devoted servant. She keeps her jewels in a safe which is as burglar proof as my own and it is my belief that she does not intend to wear the necklace in public until her return from the States."

"Has this little affair," Angus ventured, "interfered with your— er—cordial relations?"

The Duke coughed.

"I have not seen Lady Katherine for two days," he admitted. "She has rung up twice. To-night I was to have dined with her."

"And are you going to?"

"I have not quite made up my mind."

"Go through with it," Angus begged. "I have the glimmerings of an idea, Rattles, although of course it may not come to anything. Still, take my advice. It can do no harm. Dine with her and be, as far as you can, your old self. Affect to accept the situation."

"It will be rather like burning my boats, won't it?" the Duke suggested doubtfully.

"Do you think you have a ghost of a chance of persuading her to give you the necklace back in exchange for something else?"

"Not an earthly!"

"Then you're doing no harm," Angus pointed out. "And if there's anything in my idea at all you're giving my scheme a leg-up by appearing to be reconciled."

The Duke rose to his feet.

"Well, Mr. Bragg," he said, "if by any chance your firm should succeed in this matter you will find my recognition of your services generous. I admit that I am putting a difficult proposition before you but I feel sure that you will do your best."

"It will be a privilege to exert ourselves to the utmost on your behalf, your Grace."

The Duke shook hands, and exchanged a careless nod with Angus. The butler showed him out and they listened to the descent of the lift. Mr. Peter Bragg turned to his associate.

"If you really have an idea, George," he conceded, a little stiffly, "you have the advantage of me. Short of burglary I can see no method of obtaining possession of the necklace."

Angus was for once almost modest.

"Of course I don't know whether my idea's a damned bit of use, Pudgy," he confided, "but here it is...."

Lady Katherine was an exceedingly good-natured person, but even she was a little ruffled when she swept into the morning room of her house in Hertford Street at twelve o'clock on the following day to receive her too early caller. She held out her hand affably enough but she indulged in a grimace of annoyance.

"My dear George," she protested, "what sort of a person do you think I am? Fancy sending up a card at eleven o'clock—"

"A quarter past," he interrupted.

"A quarter past eleven then—to say that you wished to see me on business. In the first place what business could you possibly have with me or anyone else, and in the second place, if you wanted to see me why couldn't you have taken me out to lunch or tea and a dance. Sit down, for heaven's sake, so long as you are here. What's it all about?"

"My dear Kate," Angus explained, "when I sent word to say that! I wished to see you on business it was a perfectly honest statement of the facts. We cannot possibly discuss business at lunch or at a thé dansant. Let us finish with the commercial side of the affair and I am entirely at your disposition."

"Well, that's something," she admitted, with a complacent little] sigh. "Now please explain yourself. The word business in connection with you intrigues me."

Angus coughed.

"I don't know why it should," he complained. "I am not the eldest son, and according to the governor his taxes eat up all his income and a little bit round the corner. However, as you know, we'r3 all doing something nowadays—selling automobiles, champagne, or touting for bets. I'm in the insurance business."

Lady Katherine half closed her eyes.

"The insurance business!" she murmured. "Any business at all for you, George! How sweet! Go on, please, and tell me where 1 come in."

Angus solemnly opened his pocket-book and produced a card printed that morning at red-hot speed at a small printing establishment. Lady Katherine read it out slowly:


The Honourable George Vincent Angus,
Protective Insurance Company,
100, Cornhill, London, E.C.


"My God!" she exclaimed. "What does this mean? And what do you protect?"

"You, my dear lady," he said earnestly—"you and your belongings! You, from any evil that could possibly happen; your belongings from any possible loss that might accrue to you from their untimely diappearance. Honest, Kate, to cut the gabble, my job is to insure people and I get a jolly fat commission out of it. I can insure you against death, measles, permanent disfigurement, railway accidents, twins, house burnt over your head, loss of your jewellery or any other of those trifling misfortunes likely to happen to the modern young woman."

She began to laugh, softly at first, but more heartily later.

"Ring the bell," she directed. "Groves must make us a cocktail. I am feeling very unwell this morning, and I must get used to this attitude on your part."

Angus did as he was bidden. The butler duly appeared and received his instructions.

"Spare me the rest," Lady Katherine begged, "until I have received alcoholic stimulus. Where were you yesterday evening and the night before? Rattles gave us a wonderful party last week at Cumberland House."

"Never asked me," Angus grumbled. "I think he knows I'm too fond of you."

"Rubbish! Well, anyhow, yesterday evening?"

"Yesterday evening I was out trying to get a Johnny up at Hampstead to insure his house."

"Any luck?"

Angus shook his head gloomily.

"The only thing I'm doing any good with," he confided, "is the jewellery insurance. That is really a good egg. You can wear all your priceless things down at Whitechapel, if you like, and all that happens if you lose them is you have the fun of replacing them. I think this insurance of jewellery stunt will break my people sooner or later."

"Explain it to me the moment I have drunk my cocktail," she bogged. "As it happens I am a little interested."

The cocktails were duly brought. With a dividend in their glasses the two young people faced the situation with renewed spirit.

"It is this jewellery insurance," Angus went on persuasively, "I should recommend to you, Kate, more particularly than anything. I don't want to bother you about the other things; I expect your agents look after that. Perhaps you have an insurance on your jewellery?"

"I haven't—not a penny—never thought it worth while."

"Well, listen. All you have to do is to let me run through your little lot and you tell me the values, or approximately, what you gave for them."

"I didn't buy them all myself," she murmured, glancing reflectively at the ceiling.

'' That don't matter. We can easily get at the values," he assured her. "After that I lump the things up. Say you've got thirty thousand pounds' worth. I give you a policy. You pay me about a hundred pounds—no hurry about the premium—you can date the cheque on a bit, if you want. And then you can go and lose the whole bally lot and get the boodle."

Lady Katherine was impressed.

"It sounds all right," she admitted. "I lost two of my pearls last week."

"You'd have had the cash for them if you'd been insured with us," Angus pointed out, "and you could have spent it on something else if you'd liked."

Lady Katherine toyed with the remainder of her cocktail.

"As a matter of fact, George," she confided, "my stock of jewels has been added to very considerably during the last few days."

"All the more reason for you to insure," he persisted eagerly.

"You see, Rattles rather spread himself the other night," she went on. "He gave me the necklace I have been wanting all my life."

"You don't mean the Madras Necklace!" he gasped.

"That is just what I do mean," she admitted triumphantly.

Angus's whistle was long and expressive.

"My dear Kate," he said emphatically, "if you wear that necklace without insuring it you will commit a positive crime. Have you any idea of its value?"

Her eyes glistened.

"Tell me, George dear?" she begged.

"I should value that necklace," he pronounced, "at something like twenty-five thousand pounds."

She finished her cocktail with a little purr of content.

"Well, there it is," she assured him. "It's upstairs now in my safe."

"I consider my visit," Angus declared, "to have been a dispensation of Providence. Let your maid bring down the lot. I'll run through them and give you a policy on the spot. Then you'll be safe."

"You're a dear, George," she said, "but the safe is screwed into the wall. You'll have to come up to my bedroom."

George rose to his feet promptly.

"I may have my faults," he admitted, "but I am not lacking in courage."

She boxed his ears and they marched up the stairs together. Her maid, who was busy in the room, fetched the keys and brought the cases one by one into the adjacent boudoir. George producing his pocket-book, made careful note of the various contents. They came at last to the necklace. Lady Katherine took it out of its case almost reverently. She held it up to the light, held it against her neck, and then passed it over to her companion. His first touch seemed embarked upon in entirely the same spirit of veneration. Suddenly his face changed. He lowered the necklace for a moment under the table, brought it again into the light, adjusted his monocle, hurried to the window and stood there for several moments. When he came back again there was a certain limpness in his manner which intrigued her.

"What's the matter, George?" she asked.

"Nothing," he assured her. "Nothing at all."

"How much are you going to put the necklace down for in the valuation?"

"I really don't know," he answered evasively. "Perhaps—well, Why not leave the necklace out?"

She stared at him.

"Leave the necklace out? What do you mean?"

"I don't know," he repeated miserably. "You see, Kate, I'm a pal and all that, but this is a matter of business, isn't it?"

"Well, we're treating it as such, aren't we?" she demanded.

"You wish me to?" he asked wistfully.

"Of course I do."

He had the air of a man making great demands upon his courage.

"Well, look here, Kate," he said, "between you and me that necklace is a fake."

"Don't be absurd," she scoffed.

"But I know it is a fake," he insisted. "It is a copy of what all the deallers know as the Madras Necklace which Rattles gave his wife when they were married. You know she's just been out to India? "

Lady Katherine nodded.

"She's on her way back."

"I ask you," George demanded, "would she be likely to have gone out to India, where everyone knows faked jewels from real ones, wearing the copy of the necklace. She took the real one and left this at home. A perfectly natural thing to do. I can't believe, Kate, that Rattles really gave you that as the real thing."

Lady Katherine thought hard for several moments. There were two little lines by the side of her lips which came into evidence, two or three more in her forehead which suddenly showed. The softness in her eyes had departed. Her brain was busy. Involuntarily she gave an impression of what she would become in, say, a matter of half-a-dozen years,

"George," she said, "I can't believe you. Rattles was perfectly furious when I marched off with the necklace and insisted upon sticking to it. He owes me a present, so I helped myself, but he's offered me anything else I liked in its place."

Angus smiled dubiously. He passed his arm through Lady Katherine's.

"Perhaps he doesn't know himself," he suggested. "The Duchess is no fool, you know."

There was a brief silence. Lady Katherine, with the necklace in her hand, walked to the window and back again. She looked at the gems in the darkness and in the light.

"Look here, I tell you what," Angus suddenly exclaimed. "Naturally, as we insure jewels, we've got an expert on the premises. Cleverest chap there ever was! He's never been deceived yet. Let me telephone him. He knows nothing about the facts. He shall come here—I left him in the office—I should think he could be here in ten minutes. We'll simply put it to him: are these real gems or aren't they? That ought lo be sufficient, oughtn't it? Personally it doesn't make any difference to me. I shouldn't insure them, but for your sake I think it ought to be cleared up."

"For my sake it shall be," Lady Katherine agreed. "Go into my room and ring up your friend."

They carried the case downstairs and acting upon a hint from Angus the butler paid them a second visit.

"If I thought Rattles dared play me a trick like that!" Lady Katherine murmured, with gleaming eyes.

"My dear Kate," Angus protested earnestly, "don't get away with that idea. I tell you that honestly I don't believe Rattles knows. I'm not very well acquainted with the Duchess, but that's just the sort of trick she would play on him, and I don't believe for a moment she'd go to India without her necklace."

The butler presently made his appearance with an announcement:

"The gentleman your ladyship was expecting."

Mr. Peter Bragg stepped in. Angus rose at once to his feet.

"Mr. Bragg," he said, "let me present you to Lady Katherine Somerby. Lady Katherine was on the point of concluding an insurance; with me of her jewellery, but she wished me to include a necklace here concerning which I, being, as you know, not an expert, feel that I ought to have a second opinion."

"In plain words, Mr. Bragg," Lady Katherine intervened, placing the necklace in his hands, "will you take that to the light or the dark; or wherever you please, and tell me whether those are real gems or imitation. I will tell you frankly that it is supposed to be the Madras Necklace belonging to the Duke of Cumberland."

Mr. Peter Bragg bowed gravely.

"Lady Katherine," he said, "if this is the Madras Necklace of the Duke of Cumberland, I shall be in a position to tell you so within thirty seconds. If it is an imitation I shall still occupy no more of your time. Permit me."

He took the necklace to the window, stood there for the briefest possible period of time and, returned. He laid the necklace upon the table with an almost contemptuous flick of the hand.

"This necklace, Lady Katherine," he announced, "consists of gems of artificial manufacture. I think I recognise the maker—a Jew named Artenfeldt in Hounslow who has once or twice deceived experts. He has a considerable connection with the aristocracy in duplicating their precious possessions."

Lady Katherine remained quite silent for several seconds. Then shd closed the case with a snap.

"You see, Kate," Angus explained apologetically, "I couldn't very well include that necklace in the policy at anything more than a hundred pounds or so, could I?"

"Naturally not," she admitted. "Send your friend away, please."

Mr. Bragg departed with a curt nod of thanks from Lady Katherine; and a stealthy wink from Angus. The former crossed the room towards her writing-table.

"Will you execute a little commission for me, George," she begged.

"Glad to," he answered.

"What did you say the name of, your insurance company was?" she enquired.

"The—" Angus made a desperate grab for the card which was still lying upon the table—"'Protective Insurance Company.' First class, I can assure you. Never failed to pay a claim yet."

"Very well," she answered, "you can come round again to-morrow morning and bring me a policy. I may have something else to put in then, At present, if you'll be a dear, you'll take this note and the necklace—I'll do it up presently—round to Rattles."

"You won't get me into any trouble with Rattles?" Angus begged nervously. "I want him as a client."

"Certainly not," she assured him. " That won't be my line at all."

Lady Katherine dashed off her note, packed up the necklace very tidily and dismissed her caller.

"If you would like to dance at Claridge's at half-past four—" she suggested.

"I should be delighted."

The Duke of Cumberland emerged from the front door of his town liousc and paused disconsolately upon the steps, wondering where to lunch, just as Angus drove up in a taxi, with a small brown paper parcel in his hand. The Duke's eyes were glued upon the packet.

"You haven't got it, George?" he exclaimed.

"Come and see for yourself," Angus invited modestly but triumphantly.

The Duke pushed him into a morning room, tore off the brown paper and opened the case. Without a doubt the gems of the famous Madras Necklace flashed up at him.

"My God, are you a magician!" the Duke exclaimed.

"Read the letter," Angus suggested.

The Duke opened the envelope, and, for his friend's benefit, he read the contents aloud:


"'Dearest Rattles,
"'Forgive me, please, I couldn't really do such a horrid thing. I think tt must have been jealousy. The idea that Mona should always wear the necklace, when I wanted it so much, maddened me. But you were right. It belongs to her and I mustn't have it. You can give me what you like instead. Those emeralds you spoke of yesterday would be wonderful.
"'We dine to-night, of course.
"'Ever yours,
"'Katherine.'"

The Duke breathed a huge sigh of relief.

"Tell me, George," he insisted, "how the devil did you manage it?"

Then for several moments Angus thought very hard. Rattles was a pal and a good sort; Lady Katherine was also an old friend whom he had treated badly. Atonement was due. He came to a great decision.

"Rattles," he confided, "I argued for nearly an hour. I prevailed upon her better nature."

There were tears in the Duke's eyes.

"Damn it all! " he exclaimed. "I'll buy her the emeralds this afternoon. And you—well, come and have lunch, old chap."</story>