<story title="The Missing Hour" date="1927">
"MR. HENRY PITT," Peter Bragg read out, studying attentively the card which his visitor had presented.

"My name," the new comer acknowledged, dropping into the client's chair.

There was a brief silence. Mr. Henry Pitt was a small, nervous man with watery blue eyes, insignificant features, an untidy red moustache, and a thin crop of hair of the same colour. His physique was puny, his carriage unimpressive, and his apparel not only shabby but ill-selected. He had by no means the appearance of a likely client.

"What can we do for you, sir?" Peter Bragg enquired, with some asperity.

"They tell me that you undertake all sorts of commissions. Have you anyone on your staff who would go as far as to commit a murder, and what would it cost me?" was the unexpected rejoinder.

"If your suggestion is seriously meant," Peter Bragg replied coldly, "it would probably cost you a term of imprisonment when I disclosed your proposition, as I certainly should do, in the proper quarters. It is our business to detect crime, not to commit it."

"I fancy," Angus observed, strolling over from his chair and smiling sympathetically at this dismal-looking little visitor, "that Mr. Pitt is not literally in earnest."

"I don't suppose I am," the other admitted grudgingly. "Still, if by any chance anything were to happen to the person I have in mind, there'd be no mourning worn in my office."

"Have you any business of a definite nature to place before us?" Peter Bragg asked stiffly.

"I have," the little man replied, with unexpected spirit, "or I shouldn't have come. I have a partner—his name is Frederick Sinclair Hope. He doesn't hold as many shares as I do in the business, but he has a goodish few. He has been with me now for over three years."

"What is your business?"

"Produce merchants. It's rather a line of our own. We deal chiefly in imports from East India."

"And what is your grievance against Mr. Hope?" The visitor signed.

"My real grievance," he confided, "is that ever since he came we've been losing money. We don't seem to be able to make a deal, buying or selling, that goes right. That may not be his fault, of course. I ain't come here to grouse, anyway. There's something else I've got against him, and that's where I need your help. Would you believe me, Mr. Bragg—that man is driving me pretty well crazy through sheer common or garden curiosity."

"Explain, if you please."

"Can you believe this? At five minutes to three every afternoon for the last three years, on every business day, he takes up his hat and leaves the office. At five minutes past four he returns. Not one day a week, mind, or one day now and then, but every mortal day upon the calendar, and that's been going on for three years. He's never volunteered a word of explanation as to where he was going or what he was going to do. He simply disappears. If anybody wants to make an appointment between those hours he declines."

"Have you ever asked him where he goes to?"

"Of course I have. I've asked him a score of times in all. He only smiles, or mutters something about a matter of private business. Once, when I was a little irritated because we were busy, he as good as told me to mind my own affairs. He told me that he was a partner in the firm, not an employee, and that his time was his own to do what he liked with."

"Have you formed any idea yourself as to what he does?"

"Something like a hundred, and dismissed them all one by one. He's not the sort of man to play cards or billiards in the middle of the day. He is either a toff or thinks he is, and all his friends are up in the West End. What can a man do with one hour a day in the middle of the afternoon five days a week, right in the heart of the City?"

"It seems a little inexplicable," Peter Bragg confessed.

"It's right on my nerves. You're private detectives—well, find out for me what Frederick Sinclair Hope does between the hours of three and four, and name your fee."

"The commission appears to me to be one which we could accept," Peter Bragg observed, after a moment's reflection. "I should like a few more particulars. What aged man is your partner?"

"He pretends to be a good deal younger, but I shouldn't think he's far off the same as me—fifty-one."

"Has he any marked tastes?"

"I've never seen him in my life outside business hours," Mr. Pitt confided. "I live with my daughter out Kilburn way. Mr. Hope is a bachelor and has a flat somewhere in the West End. He ain't my sort at all. If ever I've seen him reading the newspaper when he's been through the markets it's the social bits he turns to, and he dresses every morning as though he were going to a wedding, instead of to sell coffee. He wears an eye-glass, too, and has the name of his club printed on his cards."

"Tell me the name of your firm and the address of your business premises," Peter Bragg invited.

"Pitt and Hope, Limited, 18, Grassmary Lane," was the prompt reply.

"And your commission to us is that you want to know what your partner, Mr. Sinclair Hope, does between three and four each day of his life."

"I want to know like hell," Mr. Pitt admitted, tugging at his straggling red moustache. "I began to want to know after the first week. Sometimes after the first year I felt I couldn't stand it any longer. Now, after three years, I'm going crazy about it. Leaving out Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, I reckon that for over two hundred consecutive times at three o'clock he has taken up his hat and without a word of explanation gone out. Never once in that two hundred times has he been later in returning than five minutes past four. Then back he goes to work as though nothing had happened. It's got on my nerves to such an extent that I shall do something foolish about it before long. I'm sure of that."

Peter Bragg glanced through his notes.

"I anticipate no difficulty in procuring for you the information you desire, Mr. Pitt," he announced. " I will drop you a line to your private address when I have information to offer you."

Mr. Pitt rose to his feet with a little sigh of content.

"And may it be soon! " he exclaimed fervently, as he made his adieux.

Four days later Mr. Henry Pitt was ushered into the same room in the Bellevue Mansions at about the same hour in the morning and, after a brief greeting, was invited to take the same client's chair. He sat there blinking rapidly, his nervous little eyes fixed upon Peter Bragg. He seemed out of breath, as though he had run upstairs. His hat badly wanted brushing, his necktie was ill-arranged, his linen not altogether irreproachable. For a business man his appearance was questionable.

"Well?" he exclaimed anxiously, running his hand through his thin wisps of hair. "Well, what's the news, Mr. Bragg?"

The latter consulted the report by his side.

"Your partner, Mr. Pitt," he announced, "spends the hour between three and four each day at the offices of a business with which he is connected in Mason's Alley."

"A business? Mason's Alley?" Mr. Pitt gasped. " Why that isn't fifty yards away from us."

"The firm there with which Mr. Hope is connected," Peter Bragg continued, "trades under the name of Tuke and Co., Ltd. They appear to be produce brokers and bill discounters."

For a moment all the nervousness seemed to pass from the face of the little man in the chair. He stopped blinking and sat like a carven image.

"Tuke and Co.?" he repeated, in a low tone. "Did I hear you right, Mr. Bragg? Tuke and Co.?"

"That is the name. They are not in a large way of business, but commercially their reputation is excellent. They have a capital of thirty thousand pounds, all paid up, the great majority of the shares being in the hands of your partner, who does not appear, however, to have any official position in the firm. It has been a matter of unusual difficulty to gain information concerning them, as their business seems to be conducted with a great deal of secrecy. There is a man named Tuke, for instance—a kind of manager—who receives all clients, although he seems only to act upon instructions from some mysterious principal, who is undoubtedly Mr. Hope. Mr. Hope himself is there, as I have said, from three to four each day, but it is only upon very rare occasions that he does anything beyond directing the business from behind closed doors."

Mr. Pitt rose to his feet. He seemed to be short of breath again, and a new expression had found its way into his face.

"You must excuse me," he begged, "if I am a little upset. The information you have given me is startling."

Peter Bragg made no comment; Angus, however, hovering in the background, was intrigued.

"Why startling?" he enquired.

Mr. Pitt moistened his lips and resumed his seat.

"This firm of Tuke and Co.," he explained," has for a long time been a mystery to us—to me especially, and my cashier and our traveller. They have done their business—either buying or selling—always during the afternoon, and in a manner which, if you follow me, has always been prejudicial to our own transactions. The price of some of our smaller articles of produce is very much affected by any knowledge of impending purchases. I am beginning to understand what it all means. Tuke and Co.—or rather my blackguardly partner—has simply used his knowledge of our morning transactions, of such contracts as we have accepted or refused, to make profits for Tuke and Co. during the afternoon."

"But surely," Angus pointed out, "what he gains with Tuke and Co. he loses with you."

"He has only a third share in our business," Mr. Pitt explained bitterly—" less than that, as a matter of fact, as he sold some of his shares not long ago—but he owns the whole of Tuke and Co. Furthermore, our credit has not been so good lately and we have been obliged to seek financial accommodation outside. Some of our paper is discounted with Tuke and Co. They have made us pay through the nose for it, too, by God!"

Angus murmured a word of sympathy. There was something pathetic about the sight of the little man who was groping now for his hat.

"Our fee for the enquiries will be twenty-five guineas," Peter Bragg announced.

Mr. Pitt counted out the notes. Then he took up his hat.

"I am much obliged to you, gentlemen, I am sure," he said. "At any rate you have solved the problem which has disturbed me for so long. I know now where Sinclair Hope spends the hour between three and four."

Mr. Henry Pitt lived in a gloomy, smoke-stained house in one of the backwaters of Maida Vale. The dining-room in which he spent that evening was in itself an epitome of discomfort and untidiness. The carpet was threadbare and ill-swept, the furniture was old and shabby, without having become so gracefully. The fragments of an insufficient and ill-served meal set out upon a crumpled cloth remained upon a corner of the table. The ornaments upon the chimney-piece were of the tawdriest description. The pictures upon the walls, the frames of which were in most cases peeling and the glasses cracked, were seedy reproductions of Victorian gloom. Pitt, without alcohol, tobacco, book or newspaper, had spent three hours in a horsehair easy-chair with a great gap in its side, drawn up over a torn fragment of rug to a smouldering fire. There was no indication in his face as to the direction in which his thoughts had been wandering. He remained the same nervous little man, blinking occasionally as he watched the sooty bars, glancing up now and then at the hoot of a passing taxi. At midnight one stopped. There was the sound of a key in the door. A moment or two later a girl swung into the room.

"Hullo, dad 1 " she exclaimed. "You not gone to bed?"

He turned around and looked at her. She was a handsome girl of a type which seems somehow to have become evolved by the fashions of the day. She was showily dressed—a pink theatre wrap over a pink dance frock. She was possessed of shapely and well-displayed legs, pale cheeks with a little over-much colour upon her lips, brown eyes, a trifle furtive in their expression. She swung the door to behind her and glanced discontentedly around.

"What a filthy room!" she complained. "Dad, can't you afford to do something about it?—to move, or at any rate get a decent servant? Your dinner looks as though it had been foul."

"It always is."

She laid a collection of jingling, showy baubles upon the table, from which she selected an imitation gold case, drew out and lit a cigarette. The moment seemed to her to be auspicious for framing the thought which had been in her mind for some time.

"If you have really made up your mind that you won't or can't move out of this miserable house, dad, or engage a decent servant, I shall share some rooms with Molly Fell. She has the offer of some in Bayswater that aren't half bad."

Then Mr. Pitt spoke up for the first time. His daughter almost dropped her cigarette in her amazement.

"Go and sit down in that chair," he ordered.

She stared at him. His finger was outstretched and his hand was not shaking. There had been a curious note of command in his tone. Slowly she obeyed him.

"How long have you known where Sinclair Hope spent that hour between three and four?" he demanded.

She recognised the fact that she was in for a disagreeable few minutes. After all, however, it was bound to come sometime.

"Ever since I went to Mason's Alley, of course," she replied. "It was Mr. Hope who engaged me. He offered me a great deal more than you were able to pay, dad, and shorter hours. The only condition he made was that I never mentioned to anyone the fact that he had an interest in the firm."

"An interest in you, too, hasn't he?"

She shrugged her shoulders. "We are good friends."

"Whom have you been out with to-night, dressed like that?" he demanded, staring hard at her carelessly crossed legs.

"One of my boy friends," she answered.

"Why don't you ask them here sometimes, instead of going out night after night?"

She looked around contemptuously.

"Because I'd be ashamed to. This room, for instance is wretched; it isn't even clean."

"Whose fault is that? You're the woman of the house—supposed to be. If the furniture's on its last legs, if I can't afford a decent servant, it's Sinclair Hope who is responsible. You know what's going to happen to Pitt and Hope, Ltd., don't you? Well, I'll tell you. We're practically insolvent. We're losing money every day. We're going up the spout. That's where we're going. Don't interrupt me. I'll tell you why. Tuke and Co. have done it on us, and they've done it on the day by day information that Sinclair Hope has gained with us and used for Tuke and Co. "

She was a little nervous, but she had ideas of her own.

"Mr. Hope is a very clever business man," she said. "If he saw things were going wrong with your firm, you can't blame him for buying shares in another."

"Rubbish!" Pitt exclaimed sharply. "Why did he keep his connection with Tuke and Co. a secret? I tell you if it were an ordinary partnership business instead of an incorporation he'd go to prison for conspiracy. That's what he'd do."

"But he has money in Pitt and Hope, too," she argued. "Why should he try to break up his own business?"

"He has five times as much and more in Tuke and Co.," was the bitter reply. "Now listen here, Bessie. I haven't done with you yet. I've ruin to face and Sinclair Hope to deal with, but before I go down I mean to know the rest. You don't wear clothes like that and come home in taxis every night upon your salary at the office. Where do you get it from? Does it come from Hope?"

He rose to his feet and came towards her. She was half-terrified, half-defiant.

"Some of it, yes," she admitted. "Why not? I may be going to marry him some day."

He seemed suddenly to have grown in size—the poor little insignificant being, for whom her wannest feeling had been one of kindly contempt. His hands were gripping her shoulders, his face close to hers.

"Tell me the truth," he demanded. "If you lie I shall know, and I'll kill you. The truth!" She hesitated for a single moment, and lost her nerve. She obeyed.

The metamorphosis of Henry Pitt continued. He arrived at his office in Grassmary Lane two hours after his usual time on the following morning, glanced through the few letters which were placed before him, and sent a polite message, requesting the favour of a visit from his partner. Mr. Sinclair Hope, a very tolerable imitation of the man of fashion, with thin, cynical features and unpleasant mouth, dressed with scrupulous nicety, his approaching elderliness cunningly concealed by the efforts of coiffeur and tailor, strolled in with a careless word of greeting to his partner, the little man whom he secretly despised more than anyone on earth. As soon as he was well in the room. Mr. Pitt locked the door.

"Sit down there in my chair," he directed, dragging another one to the opposite side of the desk.

Mr. Sinclair Hope stared at him. He had never imagined it possible that his partner could issue a command, and issue it in such a tone.

"What the devil do you mean?" he demanded, moving, however, a little closer to the chair in question.

"You'll find out when I've done with you," was the curt retort.

Some portion of the man's amazement vanished. The poor little fool had found out, of course. Well, it had to be some day. He seated himself as desired and smiled across at the locked door. The idea seemed to him humorous.

"Look here, Pitt," he said, "let's discuss this matter like reasonable men. I can guess what's up, of course. You've found out about my having a packet of shares in Tuke and Co.

"You are Tuke and Co. You practically started and own the firm. You've used the brains of this business on their behalf."

"Come, come!" Hope protested patronisingly. "I am not even a director of the firm. I simply happen to hold a considerable number of shares."

"I know all about it. I've been to see a lawyer this morning. You've kept on the safe side legally. You're a cunning dog, Hope. You've squeezed this business dry for the sake of Tuke and Co. That order for East Indian spices last week, for instance—it belonged to us. You saw that we never got it. You worked it through Tuke and Co. Pretty sort of scoundrel, aren't you?"

Sinclair Hope rose to his feet.

"I say," he protested, "I see no reason why I should sit here to be abused by you. I am like everyone else in the world—I'm out to make money for myself. It's no part of my business to take care of other people's."

"Sit down!" thundered Mr. Pitt.

His partner stared at him open-mouthed.

This little man with fierceness bristling all over him was unrecognisable. He sat down. Mr. Pitt calmly produced two documents from his pocket and passed them across the table.

"You had better look these through," he suggested, "because presently you are going to sign them."

Mr. Sinclair Hope adjusted his monocle and took up the topmost of the documents with the air of one disposed to humour a petulant child. After the first few lines the slight frown upon his forehead deepened. About half-way through his reading it disappeared altogether. When he had finished he burst out laughing.

"Capital! " he exclaimed. "So we are to amalgamate. Tuke and Co. and Pitt and Hope, shares to be pooled, profits to be divided from the first of January last twelve months. Capital, Pitt! What do I do with this little effort at humour?"

"Sign it," was the brief response. "First though you had better read the other one."

The other document consisted of a few lines only, but certainly when Mr. Sinclair Hope had read those few lines he did for a moment flinch. He threw it down, however, with a little exclamation of contempt.

"So you know about Bessie, too?"

"I do. I forced the truth out of her last night. What have you got to say for yourself? Any reason why you shouldn't sign?"

Sinclair Hope shrugged his shoulders. On the whole, as a man of the world, he preferred to say nothing.

"She was a respectable girl when she worked here," her father went on. "She did her job well and looked after the house, too. It was a decent place to live in then. It's a pig-sty now. I thought those flowers you sent sometimes and the boxes of chocolates were just kindness. I ought to have known better. A dirty hound like you doesn't given anything away for nothing."

"Look here, Pitt "

"Shut up! When she told me she'd been offered thirty shillings a week more than we'd been giving her, I was hurt, but I let her go. The business couldn't afford any more expenses. It was you yourself who decided that. She never told me until later where her new place was. You found it easy, I suppose, when you got her there to yourself."

Sinclair Hope tapped with his polished ringer nails upon the table.

"My dear Pitt," he said, a little condescendingly, "I sympathise
with your feelings as a father and all that, you know, but Bessie is
twenty-five years old—old enough to know her own mind—and girls
nowadays—"

Down came Mr. Pitt's queer-looking little fist upon the table.

"Not another word! Remember you're speaking of the girl you're going to marry."

Sinclair Hope gave a very fair imitation of a yawn.

"Look here, Pitt," he begged, "let's come to an understanding. It seems to me you're trying to play the bully. The whole thing is farcical. I haven't the faintest intention of signing either of those precious documents of yours. Get that into your head. Now, what about it?"

Mr. Pitt's hand dived into his pocket and he produced a brand new, fully loaded, wicked-looking automatic pistol. "This!" he replied.

The man on the other side of the table nearly fell off his chair. He stared aghast and with fascinated eyes at the weapon.

"Take care, Pitt! " he exclaimed. "What the h—— are you doing with a thing like that?"

"I will tell you," Pitt replied, and his tone at last had become quite calm. "You are no fool, Hope, when it comes to grasping a situation. Try to get this properly. It's important. I'm broken in business, and I've lost the only relative I have in the world—my daughter. What have I left to live for? Nothing. I'm not proposing to kill you in any fit of anger. I'm going to kill you coldly and deliberately if you don't sign those papers. I swear before God Almighty that I mean what I say. Do you believe me?"

Those weak little blue eyes were glittering with purpose. Sinclair Hope looked into them, and he did believe.

"Don't you know that if you did that," he faltered, amazed at the weakness of his own voice, "you'd hang for it?"

"I shouldn't," Mr. Pitt replied indifferently, "because I should shoot myself afterwards. You think I haven't the courage? I can assure you that I have. Are you going to sign?"

Sinclair Hope deliberated. Finally he took up a pen with affected unwillingness. There was a cunning gleam in his eyes. To the man who watched him his thoughts were reflected there.

"Under compulsion," he muttered.

Henry Pitt leaned across the table.

"After all, Hope," he said, "you're a simple fellow. You think you're clever, but you're not—when a mug like I can read your thoughts. Your idea now is to sign those documents. You're then going to clear out and shelter yourself behind your lawyers. You will probably apply for a summons against me, and in court you will declare that you are in bodily fear of your life. They'll bind me over or something, won't they? Look here, Hope—listen!

The little man's voice had become charged with a thin, vibrant note of purpose. His words carried immense conviction.

"They couldn't keep me in prison," he pointed out. "You might get a week or a month longer to live, although I don't think it would be as much as that. You can't keep a policeman on either side of me. You can't wear a bullet-proof suit day and night. If you don't sign those papers you'll go in fear of death every hour from dawn to darkness, because as surely as we two sit here at this table I swear before God that I shall kill you. Nothing can alter that—nothing. You might hide for a little time, but even then you'd have to leave the country, give up the life you love, give up this money-making, and in the end I should find you. It isn't I who decide whether you shall live or die; it is for you to make up your mind."

Sinclair Hope felt for a moment at his collar. More than ever it was borne in upon him that this insignificant little man whom he had always despised had become his master. He dipped a pen in the ink.

"Wait a moment," the other interrupted, rising to his feet. "I have brought a friend to witness this."

He crossed the room, unlocked the door and signed to someone outside. George Angus entered, very debonair, with a bunch of violets in his buttonhole and a general air of good-humour and well-being. Pitt led him to the table.

"This is my friend Mr. Angus—my partner, Mr. Sinclair Hope," he announced. "Mr Angus will witness these two documents."

"Very glad to indeed," Angus acquiesced. "Quite a pleasant way out of a difficult situation."

Sinclair Hope moistened his dry lips.

"May I ask, sir, whether you are aware of the nature of the pressure which has been placed upon me?"

"I know all about it," Angus admitted. "Mr. Pitt and I have spent an hour or so together this morning."

"And you approve ?"

"Entirely. The law's so damned unfair," Angus went on, leaning back in his chair and hitching up one of his trouser legs. "Sometimes a man of spirit like Mr. Pitt has to take things into his own hand. You see, without a bob in the world, at Mr. Pitt's time of life, and losing his daughter and all that, he'd probably commit suicide anyway, so he may just as well make use of his desperate state to try to do himself a bit of good. Follow me?"

"Do himself a bit of good?" Sinclair Hope repeated in a dazed tone. "By becoming a murderer?"

"No need to use ugly words," Angus protested. "There's no absolute standard of crime, you know. It might be a moral peccadillo on Mr. Pitt's part to insist upon your sharing his departure from the world, but there's a kind of justice about it, isn't there? Besides, there's another point of view. Supposing you decide to believe that Mr. Pitt is bluffing —which he isn't—and you take this matter to court and say that your signature was obtained by threats. Mr. Pitt here will place the facts in the possession of his lawyers, and the whole of the transactions between Pitt and Hope and Tuke and Co. would be disclosed as well as your relations with Miss Pitt. Legally you might win your case. From an actual and social point of view you would cease to exist as a respectable member of society, just as I honestly believe you would cease to exist as;a human being the first time Mr. Pitt was able to find you. So there you are, you see. Good reasoning, don't you think? A bit of the primitive sprung into our everyday life. Much better than the Law Courts."

Sinclair Hope swallowed hard, took up the pen and scrawled his name across the bottom of both documents. Angus followed suit.

"As a matter of form, Mr. Hope," he said, "I must ask you whether you have affixed your name to these documents willingly and without compulsion."

Sinclair Hope nodded. At that moment of his greatest humiliation he found himself admiring the cut of Angus's grey tweed suit, the ease and nonchalance of his manner.

"Yes, I am signing them of my own free will," he admitted.

There was the sound of a taxi stopping outside, swift footsteps in the outer office. The door was opened and closed. Bessie, pale and breathless, advanced towards the desk. An expression of relief shone in her face as she looked at the three men. Angus alone rose to his feet and bowed.

"I'm sorry," she faltered. "I didn't mean to rush in like this. I was frightened."

"Frightened?" her father repeated.

"I saw you come out of that gunsmith's shop," she told him. "I went in and they told me that you had bought a pistol there and some cartridges. I went to Mr. Hope's rooms—but you weren't there. I couldn't help it. I'd been everywhere I could think of. I had to find you."

Mr. Pitt produced his new acquisition from his pocket, gingerly extracted the cartridges and handed it across to his daughter.

"You may keep it, if you like, my dear," he said simply. "Hope and I have decided to settle our differences in another fashion."

Sinclair Hope, whose brain had been working rapidly during the last few minutes, rose to his feet. He had a new feeling, almost of admiration, for his partner, and in the light of it he was inclined to be ashamed of his own misdeeds. Bessie, too—it was for his sake she had been agitated, and she certainly was looking remarkably pretty. If a man like Angus could look at her so admiringly she must be out of the ordinary. A wave of something like generosity mingled with his instincts of self-preservation. What he had signed he would respect.

"Your father has been very angry with me, Bessie," he said, "and not altogether without reason. We have now come to an understanding. Whilst you are here, and before your father and this gentleman, I wish to ask you whether you will marry me. We have spoken of this before, but I think it is time that we had a definite understanding."

She came happily over to his side.

"You mean it?" she whispered.

"Of course, my dear," he replied, passing his arm round her waist.

Angus produced his cigarette-case and handed it around. Sinclair Hope looked at the coronet with awe-stricken eyes.

"Are you the Mr. Angus," he asked deferentially, "whom I saw playing polo once at Ranelagh—son of Lord Moningham?"

"I'm the chap," Angus admitted, with a friendly smile. "I'm in business as an enquiry agent now with an old school-fellow—Peter Bragg. Mr. Pitt came to consult us last week. It was one of our chaps who tumbled to your being Tuke and Co. between three and four of an afternoon."

Sinclair Hope coughed. This was a little matter that belonged to the past, and it was the present in which he was interested.

"I saw you once, too, at the Wanderers' Club," he continued, lighting one of the precious cigarettes, "A friend of mine is a member there."

"Very likely," Angus replied affably. "Look here, I tell you what," he went on, with a sudden inspiration. " This has been an awkward little business. Let's settle it up the only proper way. We've got a ladies' room in the Wanderers'. We'll all go there and have lunch and drink a bottle to the engagement, and another to the new firm."

Mr. Pitt looked ruefully at his clothes, but Angus, whose admiration and liking for the little man had increased steadily since he had been dragged out of bed that morning at nine o'clock to interview him, only laughed. Sinclair Hope, the ambition of whose life it had been to cross once more the portals of the Club, straightened his tie and tried hard to conceal his gratification. After all, there must be something more in his quaint little partner than he had ever imagined, if he was able to attract such consideration from a young man in Angus's position.

"I shall be dehghted," he answered.

"I'll use your 'phone, if I may," Angus suggested, moving across the room towards it.

Sinclair Hope extended his left hand towards Bessie and leaned across the table towards his partner.

"No ill-feeling, eh, Pitt?" he begged. "You can afford to forget. You've won. We'll take that empty warehouse of Griffiths' across the way and work this business for all it's worth. I've got very reliable information, and there's a lot of money coming our way in ginger during the next few months."

Henry Pitt had the largest soul which ever existed in a small man. He stretched out his hand and grasped his partner's. The latter was filled with a generous purpose.

"The amalgamation will bring you back the profits I have skinned you of lately," he said, "but I tell you what I'll do. I'll buy Bessie's ring this afternoon with the profits of that last deal in spices."

Angus turned away from the 'phone.

"That's all right," he announced. "I've got my car outside, and I'll tool you up. We'll stop at the Carlton and have a cocktail first. Our barman at the Club is a poor shaker. Mr. Hope can sit in front with me, and Mr. Pitt can have a palaver with his daughter," he added, with a kindly glance towards the little man.

Mr. Hope reached for his hat. His cup of bliss was full. He thought once or twice of those signatures on his way up West, but his last lingering regrets passed as he leaned over to wave his hand and nod to two of his acquaintances in Piccadilly.</story>