<story title="THE UNEXPECTED MURDER" date="1936">
COLIN ROOKE, with the air of a man desperately bored, looked at his empty glass and sighed. The stranger who was seated on the adjacent stool at the bar of the very famous and exceedingly exclusive Hobgoblin Club leaned slightly over and addressed him.

"You can have your glass filled again," he said, "and then again, but the man for whom you are looking will not come. You waste your time."

Colin scrutinised his neighbour curiously.

"That's bad news," he remarked. "How do you know that I'm waiting for anyone?"

The other smiled. His body and his clothes were insignificant. His face was intelligent. To judge from the slight movement at the corners of his sensitive mouth he was smiling inwardly. He had not the air of a man who was conscious of taking a liberty.

"Well, I might reply that it was pretty obvious," he replied. "You sit there at an angle which enables you to watch the door without seeming to watch it. Every time it is opened I can trace the reaction in your apprehensions. You are waiting for someone you are half anxious and half afraid to see. I can set your mind at ease or disappoint you—I am not sure which. He will not come."

Colin attracted the attention of the barman and touched his glass. The latter smiled, removed the empty glass and, turning his back upon the two men, stretched up to the shelf, selecting the bottles. The stranger leaned a trifle nearer to Colin.

"Get out of here, you idiot," he advised. "If he comes, there will be hell to pay when he and Belle meet. How would that little rencontre suit you, I wonder?"

Colin's expression was one of bland bewilderment. He took the glass which the barman had pushed across the counter and twirled its stem between his fingers.

"I wonder who you think I am?" he said.

"Don't be ridiculous," the other enjoined. "I know who you are and I tell you you are a fool to be in this place at all. Have you noticed how empty the dancing-rooms are?"

"There doesn't seem to be so many people as usual," Colin admitted. "I can't say I am surprised at that. There are several other amusements to be met with in this place. What I should like to know is—for whom are you mistaking me?"

The man by his side slipped from his stool and strolled a few feet away to a point of vantage from which he obtained a better view of the dancing-room beyond. For a moment he watched the couples swaying around and moved his head in time to the music.

"Several friends of yours, at any rate, don't seem to have been scared away yet," he remarked.

"I wonder who you think I am or what you know of my friends?" Colin reflected.

The man in the rather crumpled dinner suit smiled. He mounted his stool again and whispered confidentially in his companion's ear.

"Room number five on the third floor, Annexe A, New Scotland Yard. Not exactly an academy show of portraits, but interesting in their way. 'The Rogues' Gallery,' Inspector Henderson calls it. The seventh from the end on the wall opposite as you enter. What about that, eh?"

Colin took a long sip of his cocktail. Anything to avoid for a second or two the searching, half-fierce, half-quizzical gaze of those narrow black eyes. He set down the glass. The moment when he might have betrayed himself had passed.

"Whatever makes you think that I am Abel Martin?" he asked.

The other slipped from his stool again with a shrug of his shoulders.

"You make me tired," he said and strolled away.

Colin entered the dancing-room. The stranger's words came into his mind as he looked around. There was certainly a tense air about the place. He approached a dark, untidy-looking woman who was seated at a table with a vanity case outspread before her and a mirror in her hand.

"Will you dance?" he invited.

The girl laid down the glass. She was carelessly made up, her dress was unbecoming, but she had large flashing eyes and an ill-humoured but provocative expression.

"What do you mean?" she asked. "I don't want to be disturbed for nothing. Supper afterwards or what?"

Colin smiled. He rather admired her frankness.

"No supper," he told her. "I dined too late. A bottle of champagne and a jetton or two if you like."

"There's no gambling to-night and there are no jettons," the girl said. "Still, a bottle of champagne is something. If you dance badly, I shall leave off."

Colin danced exceedingly well, as his partner was pleased to admit after the first turn. She gave herself languorously to the music. When it stopped they were almost facing the man in the crumpled dinner clothes. He was leaning against the wall, his arms folded, his eyes travelling restlessly around the room.

"Who is that fellow?" Colin asked.

"If you take my advice, you will mind your own business," was the curt reply. "People who ask questions of us girls or the staff are not popular here."

"Seems to me a queer sort of place," he observed.

"It is," the girl agreed. "There are a good many of your sort who have left here in an ambulance—one or two who have not left at all!"

"Do you want to dance once more?"

"Stop asking all those questions, then," the girl snapped and slipped into his arms as the music recommenced.

They danced again and the girl left off with obvious reluctance. Colin ordered champagne and changed his manner. He did his best to be impressive. His companion listened to him suspiciously.

"Who brought you here?" she asked. "You are not a member."

"I have been a member for years," Colin assured her.

"Rubbish!" the girl replied. "I know every one of the regular members."

"I am abroad most of the time," he explained. "What's your name?"

"Belle. You can make whatever you like out of that."

"And who is the man I asked you about?"

She looked across the table at him steadily.

"Do you want to get me the sack?"

"I might offer you a better position."

"Rubbish!" she scoffed. "I'm not your sort and I'm not a fool. You are not here to dance with us girls. You haven't any friends here—"

"Wait," he interrupted. "I came to meet one."

"Who?"

"I don't know what he's calling himself just now. I shall know him all right when I see him, though."

The girl drank a full glass of champagne appreciatively.

"You know how to order wine," she admitted. "That Pommery is the best stuff they've got. But you are kind of young to wander about in these places alone, looking for a man whose name you don't know. Kind of stupid, too, to choose me for a companion to-night of all nights. Come from the country, don't you?"

"Brought up on a farm," he confided. "I'm up for the cattle show."

She smiled at him.

"I like you," she said. "If you'll leave off asking questions, we might get on together. Are you a detective or a journalist?"

"Detective," he replied in a hoarse but very audible whisper. "I'm here looking for a murderer."

He watched the shiver pass through her body. For a few seconds she lost her poise, then she snapped open her vanity case and her face was momentarily concealed. Colin, however, had been watching her like a lynx. He had seen the involuntary turn of her head. He had realised her moment of shock.

"I'm going," she announced abruptly. "Want to drive me home?"

"Delighted," he answered. "Wait until I've paid my bill."

* * * * *

Even Colin, who was by no means an habitué of such haunts, recognised the sitting-room as being a little unusual. It was small enough, but a window was open and a log fire burning. There was a profusion of country-grown flowers, mostly of the sweet-smelling variety. There were two or three old but reasonably good French engravings upon the walls, a shelf full of books, upon the table the current issues of various magazines—mostly French and German. The atmosphere of the place was curiously at variance with what he had anticipated. She threw herself into an easy chair opposite to his and folded her hands in front of her.

"And now?" she asked.

"You said something about a drink," he reminded her.

She frowned and rose reluctantly to her feet.

"You have been drinking champagne and I haven't any. If you like," she suggested, "you can have a glass of liqueur brandy."

"Excellent," he agreed.

She passed into an inner room, closing the door behind her, and emerged in a few moments with two beautifully-cut goblets, each containing a small quantity of brandy. She placed them on the table.

"Sorry I can't give you more," she said. "It is rather good—Courvoisier '65. A gentleman friend gave me a bottle the other night and we nearly finished it."

He raised his glass and sniffed its contents.

"Smells good," he observed.

She nodded and, turning back to the door, closed it. When she threw herself once more into her chair his glass was empty.

"I'm awfully sorry," he apologised. "Too good to keep."

She shrugged her shoulders.

"The only reason I invited you to drive me home," she complained, "was because I thought you had such good manners. However, one makes mistakes. Sure you liked it?"

"Best brandy I have tasted for a long time," he assured her.

She drank her own and set down the glass.

"Well, you have had your drink," she said. "And now?"

"You seem in a desperate hurry to get rid of me."

"I don't know that I am," she replied. "As a matter of fact, before you go —if I let you go—you must satisfy my curiosity. You must tell me—why did you come at all?"

"A trifle abrupt, aren't you?"

"I am of a nation which is supposed to lack finesse," she answered. "I am Russian."

"You speak wonderful English."

"Russians usually do. My French is even better but that is not the point. You are here, and before you go I should like to ask you a question—one or two questions, perhaps."

"Well?"

"Why did you go to the Hobgoblin Club this night of all nights in the year? What is your real name? And why does it amuse you to have people take you for a low-down criminal like Abel Martin?"

He smiled.

"I will imitate your candour," he said. "My name is Colin Rooke. I am not what you think I am—a detective. I am a journalist. But I like to look a little into life and my greatest friend is a detective. I am interested in the search which is giving him a great deal of worry just now—the case of Edgar Chilston, the Pimlico murderer."

She was watching him intently now. Her eyes were dilated. There was a vague look of trouble in them.

"My detective friend—no harm in telling you his name—Inspector Seymour," he continued, "possesses one scrap of paper from which we gathered that Chilston was to be found at the Hobgoblin Club one night this week. I am one of the few outsiders who can march into that most exclusive of West End clubs. I went there to-night to see if I could see or hear anything of him."

She rose to her feet—not too steadily—and, moving to the sideboard, poured out a glass of water and drank it off. She returned to her chair. Her expression had changed. The uneasiness in her eyes had deepened, the insolence of her tone had lessened.

"You got in, I suppose, because they took you for Abel Martin?" she remarked.

"Of course," he admitted.

"Has it ever struck you that it is rather a dangerous thing to do—to trade on your likeness to a criminal?" she asked.

"Danger," he replied, "comes to everyone. It comes just as readily to those who do not seek it as to those who do."

She laughed hardly.

"You wanted to help your friend," she said. "You take no count of the danger and you visit the Hobgoblin Club to look for a murderer. Edgar Chilston may be in danger, but he is not in such great danger as you at the present moment."

"I don't feel that way," he rejoined. "Through that judiciously opened window of yours I can hear the buses and the traffic of Shaftesbury Avenue. I can leave this room when I choose, and to tell you the truth I am getting so sleepy that I think it will be very soon. You need not disturb yourself. When I am ready to go I am quite capable of handling your automatic lift."

She was leaning a little forward, her chin resting upon the fingers of one hand, her elbow upon the side of her chair.

"A little sleepy?" she queried.

"Very," he answered. "Your room is not too hot either. I wonder whether the champagne was good?"

"Excellent," she assured him. "No need to blame the champagne. But I will tell you something. You are sleepy now, but when you get up you will be sleepier still. You will be giddy. You won't be quite certain where you are going to put your feet. Try "

He rose and stood looking down upon her with a smile, took a cigarette from his ease and lit it. As she watched him the distress in her eyes seemed to grow.

"You know," he said, "I rather think that it may be you who are going to feel that way. I never felt better in my life."

She held on with apparent bravery.

"You may think yourself clever," she sneered, "because you had sense enough to change the glasses. You are really the biggest fool that ever lived. I was inclined to give you a chance. You have lost it. You had better sit still and wait for what will surely happen to you."

Her head fell back. He picked up his hat and moved across to the door. He tried the handle carelessly enough at first. A gurgling chuckle from the chair reached him as he tried a second time. He looked around. A distorted but mirthless smile was parting her lips.

"Tell me how to open it," he begged. "It will be worth your while if you do."

She shook her head and fell back in her chair. He stooped down once more to examine the handle of the door, which answered readily enough to his touch. The door, however, remained immovable. There was a second shining slat of metal—a lock over which he had no control. He drew back aghast. From outside on the landing he heard the stopping of the automatic lift, the closing of the gate, light, swift footsteps on the bare floor. The footsteps ceased. There was the sound of a key being gently inserted in the lock. The top latch moved back. There was again the chink of metal and he could see that second bar of steel slowly leaving its place. Soon it disappeared. The door was being pushed open an inch at a time. That was one of the few moments in his life when Colin Rooke was afraid.

* * * * *

Slowly and noiselessly the door was pushed open and the figure of the intruder was revealed. At first glance there seemed to be nothing alarming, nothing specifically portentous, in his appearance. He was a man of middle height, and Colin Rooke's first impression was that he was the most immaculately attired person he had ever seen. His silk hat, worn at exactly the right angle, was carefully brushed and shining. The white handkerchief round his neck was tied with meticulous exactitude and folded under the silk lapels of the black overcoat. The patent shoes were merely a reflection of the glossy perfection of the hat. The man's white kid gloves were perfectly fitting. The fingers of one hand held a dark Malacca cane, from the others a bunch of keys was dangling. The man was of about Colin's height, but his eyes and complexion were considerably darker. His mouth, too, was strangely different. There might have been a suggestion of humour about it, but even in repose it was bitterly cynical. It was the face of a man who had lived in the hard places. He stared fixedly at Colin, but he remained speechless.

"Am I by any chance an intruder here?" the latter asked.

The visitor answered him with a not disagreeable smile.

"It might seem so," he admitted, "considering that I own the keys of the flat."

He swung them gently in front of him. Suddenly he seemed to realise the presence of the woman lying back in the armchair, her eyes closed, her head pendulous.

"What the mischief's happened to Belle?" he exclaimed.

He took a quick step forward and just as swiftly Colin sprang towards the door. The newcomer checked himself, swung round and closed it with a slam. Both latches clicked. To the lower one there was no key.

"In a hurry to depart, my friend?" he asked mockingly. "There will be plenty of time for you to make your adieux when I have had a little chat with the young lady there."

Colin Rooke remained motionless. The other's apparent harmlessness had no reassuring effect upon him. He was desperately afraid.

"I am in no hurry," he declared.

The stranger was bending over the woman in the chair. He lifted her eyelids and looked into the pupils of her eyes, leaned closer down and smelt her breath. Then he turned round to Colin.

"That's queer," he observed. "Her instructions were to bring home any inquisitive stranger from the Hobgoblin Club and ensure his remaining here for an hour or so. She seems to have prepared a little loving-cup and drunk it herself."

"Entirely my fault," Colin acknowledged. "You see, I guessed what she was up to and I changed the glasses."

The intruder laughed softly. His mouth relaxed. He had absolutely the appearance of a man enjoying a good joke.

"Well, I never!" he exclaimed. "What an amateurish blunder for an old hand like Belle. Fancy her trying that sort of thing—on a person of experience like you, too."

Colin shrugged his shoulders slightly.

"After all," he remarked, "I was rather looking for trouble. I pick up the young lady at the Hobgoblin Club and she brings me to a flat in Shaftesbury Avenue! You couldn't blame me for keeping my eye on her."

"Of course not," the other assented. "But I do blame her for thinking that she could hoodwink a person of your experience so easily."

"What do you know about me?" Colin asked.

The man who had been carrying the keys slipped them into his pocket. He leaned over to the table, took a cigarette from a box, sniffed and lit it.

"Well, anyhow, the people at the Hobgoblin think you have had plenty of experience," he said. "They believe that you are Abel Martin."

"Aren't I?" Colin asked.

The stranger shook his head

"You are not," he affirmed tersely. "If you were, I shouldn't have bothered. When they told me that Abel Martin had been hanging around the place and had taken Belle home I thought I'd better come along and look into things. I knew you were not Abel Martin, so it became rather interesting to me to find out who you were."

"Why?"

The unexpected visitor paused for a moment. He looked steadily at the end of the cigarette, then he looked across at his questioner, and Colin Rooke saw a new and menacing light in his steely eyes.

"Because," he explained, "there are a good many people in London to-night who are rather anxious to find me, and when I hear of a man who has found his way into the one place where I am usually safe the Hobgoblin Club—under a false identity, and has made friends with the girl whom I allow people to think is my property and set up as a puppet in my flat, and leaves the place with her, then it becomes to me a matter of curiosity—of more than curiosity, of necessity—to find out who this man is who is so closely on my tracks. Do you understand now, my friend? Who are you? Come over with it. If you are from the Yard, you are a new hand. I know all the men who are on my job, but you are not one of them. Are you a new hand or some blundering amateur? A man doesn't throw himself about at the Hobgoblin Club under a false name a night like this for nothing. A pretty risky thing to do, you know. No wonder you looked longingly at that door a minute or two ago."

"As to who I am," Colin said, "I scarcely see what business it is of yours. I will tell you this, though. I am not a detective. I have nothing whatever to do with the police."

"Well, that's good news so far," the other observed. "Why then are you running the risk of masquerading as a well-known criminal?"

"I could not have got into the Hobgoblin Club any other way," Colin confessed.

"And what did you want to get into the Hobgoblin Club for?"

"I am a journalist," Colin confided. "My name is Colin Rooke."

The other looked at him gravely.

"A journalist," he repeated. "I'm sorry to hear that."

"Why?"

"Because I think that on the whole I dislike journalists almost as much as I do detectives."

"Come along to the Press Club and have supper with me," Colin invited. "I may be able to make you change your mind."

"I don't think you would," the visitor replied. "I don't think you would take me to the Press Club to start with. You wouldn't care about writing my name in the visitors' book."

"What is it?"

"Edgar Chilston."

"Edgar Chilston—the Pimlico murderer?"

"Precisely."

From outside there still came the incessant roar of the early-morning traffic. Inside the room there was a silence so intense that both men were conscious of the heavy breathing of the woman in the chair.

"Now you understand," the newcomer continued, "why I was obliged to close that door a little hurriedly when I found you so anxious to take your leave. You were hunting me at the Hobgoblin Club. Why?"

"Before we deal in such home truths," Colin said, "I should like to ask one question. There's a slight protuberance on the right side of your hip?"

"A pertinent question," the murderer replied. "You shall see."

He thrust his hand into the hip pocket of his trousers and drew out a long black case. He opened it and held it out to Colin.

"There," he sail. "You shall see one of the sights of the world. Those are the diamonds of the Princess Dracopoli. For those diamonds they say some seven or eight murders have already been committed. I, Edgar Chilston, committed the latest one and I have the jewels."

"I have never seen anything like them in my life," Colin acknowledged in an almost awed undertone.

"That I can well understand," the other replied, as he restored them to their place. "If you were not already on the threshold of eternity, you would not have seen them now."

"A revolver in the other pocket, eh?"

Edgar Chilston smiled.

"I am rather tired of fire-arms," he confessed. "Old-fashioned stuff. I'll permit you one more sensation during these last few seconds. I will show you something really wonderful."

He measured with his eyes the distance between Colin and himself, then he twirled for a moment his Malacca stick lightly in his hand as though he were a drum major. Suddenly he flung out his arm. Through the embossed gold head of the Malacca cane there flashed an amazing length of blue steel—cruel-looking steel, like living fire. Rooke started back with a little cry. The point of the weapon, almost as fine as a needle, had come to within half a foot of his neck. He stared at it hypnotised. Edgar, Chilston pressed his forefinger upon the ferrule. The sword flashed back again into its place and disappeared with a click. The gold top closed upon it.

"Your life is mine at any moment, young man," he declared calmly. "I am never in any hurry to proceed to extremes, though. I only regret that a person so agreeable as you seem to be should have put himself in such a situation. Tell me—you are not a detective, you were not forced to take this terrible risk—did you do it, then, for the sake of your newspaper?"

"Not altogether," Colin replied. "It will be a magnificent story for them at first hand, of course, and I shall look forward to promotion, but I really did this to oblige my greatest friend—Detective-Inspector Seymour."

"A pity you told me that," the murderer meditated. "Still, since you have gone so far, tell me why a detective, who is supposed to be as shrewd as the average Scotland Yard duds, didn't work out his little scheme for himself?"

"I see no reason why I shouldn't tell you that," Colin Rooke decided, glancing for a moment towards Belle's prostrate form. "Seymour had an idea where you were for the last three days, but he was afraid to move. He was afraid of your slipping through his fingers."

Chilston nodded approvingly.

"Quite right," he admitted. "What I should have done. Not only that, but he would never have seen the diamonds."

"Exactly what he realised," Colin went on. "He sent for me because he knew that I was a member, through sheer accident, of the Hobgoblin Club because of my likeness to Abel Martin. He explained to me that if he moved a man to within a street or a square of the Club, if he tried to plant anyone inside it, he was certain to lose you. He has the utmost respect for your present spy system."

"It is practically perfect," the murderer murmured. "Before I entered the Club this evening I knew the name and history of every member present. I had a gang of men patrolling the street and, as I dare say you have heard, there is a private way out of the Hobgoblin which I could have used, the secret of which is known to no one on earth except myself."

"Just so," Colin agreed. "I was about the only person, with my bogus membership in the place, who could afford him any assistance. I offered to do it. I carried out my promise. I waited about the place until twelve o'clock, I danced with this young lady who I understand is only your reputed associate and I brought her home to this flat. My part in the little drama is finished. She made so clumsy an attempt to get rid of me that I can scarcely believe she was in earnest. However, the warning was enough. I was on the point of taking my leave when you arrived."

"All quite clear," Edgar Chilston assented. "The time, alas, arrives to break up this little conference. I trust you have found these last few minutes pleasant? You have talked confidentially with one of the most famous criminals of the age—with Edgar Chilston himself—you have seen the most wonderful jewels in existence, so you can never complain that your last few minutes have been ill spent. The only thing I cannot tell you is how I visited and left the Hobgoblin Club undetected, or how, in a matter of thirty seconds, without unfastening that door, I propose to leave these premises. Alas, you will never know. Belle!"

The girl rose suddenly to her feet. From somewhere within the folds of her loose dress she must have drawn the revolver tightly clenched in her right hand. Edgar Chilston watched her with a smile of approval.

"You will not suffer, Mr. Colin Rooke," he continued gently. "Belle could hit a sixpence at a longer range than your heart at the present moment. The time has arrived."

Colin Rooke saw death down the dark muzzle of the weapon held in the girl's steady fingers. Then death passed. It swept in a semicircle over those few feet to the right.

"Two nights of hiding, Edgar!" she cried, leaning towards him, her eyes blazing, the wild passion of a tigress in her drawn features, "and I know where you were! You are right—the time has arrived"

Edgar Chilston was also right in his estimate of the girl's prowess. The bullet passed through the middle of his heart. When they opened his coat there was only one dark spot of blood to mark the place. He died with only a single twitch.

* * * * *

The usual comfortable table in a quiet corner of Rupert's Restaurant. The five Rooke legatees. Upraised glasses. Once more Phillip Rooke proposed a happy continuance in the life of adventure.

"It's all very well," Mrs. John Rooke grumbled as they resumed their places. "You three men have had a very good turn. Colin here publicly thanked by the police for his help in tracking down a murderer. By the by, Colin, I haven't seen the papers—I hope the girl got off?"

"She got off all right," Colin replied.

"Well, then there's Phillip here mixed up with a king's famous jewel in a sealed casket, and Percy actually the principal witness in a murder trial. That's what I call living a life of adventure! What about Ann and me?"

"You wait till next month," Ann said significantly.</story>