<story title="THE PERFECT WITNESS" date="1935">
MR. PERCY ROOKE'S trouble began upon a certain morning when driving his very beautiful new Daimler car from his cousin's select guest-house in Hampstead to the small office which he had rented in Norfolk Street. He was proceeding slowly along the main road at a respectable distance behind a crowded omnibus. He saw the eager gestures of the girl in the middle of the pathway, he even heard her appeal to the driver, but the part of the incident which affected him most was the look of weary disappointment on the girl's face as the bus pursued, without stopping, its relentless course. For once in his life he acted upon impulse. He brought his car to a standstill and leaned towards the pavement.

"The buses all seem very full this morning," he said. "If you are going towards the City can I give you a lift?"

She looked at him blankly. At first she seemed scarcely to understand. He opened the door invitingly. She stepped from the kerb and took her place by his side. Still she remained speechless.

"I cannot think why they don't run more buses at this busy time," he remarked a little lamely, as he started off.

"I wish they would," she agreed. "I get so tired of waiting about for them."

A gentle, almost a pleasant voice. Percy Rooke permitted himself a glance at his companion. She was very pale, even for a City worker. She was neatly dressed, but her clothes lacked any sort of distinction. It seemed to him in those first few moments that she would have been plain but for the dark, suffering eyes and the wistful appeal of her tremulous lips.

"What part of the City are you making for?" he enquired.

"The Strand," she answered. "My work is in Surrey Street."

"Capital! I go to Norfolk Street—scarcely a hundred yards away."

She leaned back amongst the cushions with a faint gesture of content.

"Yours is a beautiful car," she said. "After the buses this is wonderful."

"You don't like buses?"

"Does anyone?" she queried. "Yet, after all, it's not the buses. It's the people—the crowd, the pushing and the atmosphere."

She closed her eyes deliberately and Percy Rooke, who had intuition in such things, felt that she was indisposed for conversation. He gave his whole attention to the driving of the car, which for him was a new accomplishment, and the silence between them prevailed until he drew up by the kerb at the top of Surrey Street.

"There you are," he exclaimed. "I think we've been a little quicker than the bus!"

She slipped not ungracefully down on to the pavement and turned to look at him.

"Thank you very much," she said. "The drive has been so pleasant."

He raised his hat and the incident would probably have passed altogether from his mind but for the smile which suddenly parted her lips before she turned round and disappeared amongst the throng. It was a strange, almost seductive, though mirthless gesture, and the dark eyes looking into his at the same moment seemed to lend to it a puzzling, indefinable significance. Then she was gone. The memory of the smile remained.

The rest of the day passed for Percy Rooke very much like all others. He transacted a little business, left his office at five o'clock, drove slowly home to Hampstead, played a game of billiards with his cousin's boarder, a Colonel McGleesh, dined in tranquil comfort, retired to bed at half-past ten and, somewhat to his surprise, went to sleep at an unduly late hour, haunted by the memory of a smile. In the morning he found himself in a curiously undecided frame of mind. It was not his custom to go to the office every day, and being Saturday he had intended to invite his cousin, the proprietress of his temporary home, to take a drive into the country. Without any conscious change of intention, however, he ordered his car round at the usual time, started out Citywards and repeated his itinerary of the previous day. He drove more slowly along the Broadway, and gazed almost eagerly at the scattered little groups of would-be passengers waiting at the various bus stations. He arrived at the spot where he had picked up his previous day's companion without catching a glimpse of her. Unreasonably disappointed, he pulled up by the kerb and lit a cigarette. Just as he was closing his briquet he felt a step on the footboard of the car. He glanced around. With quite an unreasonable glow of pleasure he realised that she was calmly taking her place by his side.

"Good morning," he greeted her.

"Good morning," she replied. "Were you waiting for me?"

"I was hoping that you would come."

She disposed of her bag in her lap, toyed for a moment with a bunch of keys she was carrying, settled herself in her seat and leaned back, half closing her eyes.

"Surrey Street?" he enquired.

"I suppose so," she answered listlessly.

"Don't you go there every morning?" he asked.

"Yes. I was not sure that I would go to-day, though. I am not obliged to work on Saturdays."

He drove on in silence. The few young women with whom he had come in contact, especially since he had become known as one of the famous Rooke legatees, were seemingly all the time anxious, a little too anxious, to talk and make the best of themselves. This girl, with her habit of silence and the almost ungraceful slouch of her repose, seemed utterly indifferent. He had the feeling that if he asked her questions it would bore her to reply. After all, though, he reminded himself, she was here of her own accord.

"What sort of work do you do?" he asked her.

"Thieving of various sorts," she replied.

He glanced at her as though eager to catch the trend of her thoughts. She was quite indifferent, however. She showed no signs of having said anything unusual.

"Ought I to look after my pocketbook?"

"I might take it if I had the chance! Pocket-picking is not one of my specialities, though."

"How do you indulge your criminal instincts, then?" he enquired good-humouredly.

"I help other people to rob on a larger scale," she confided.

He stole another glance at her. She was just as pale as yesterday, and with the light from her eyes half hidden and her mouth in repose her face lacked character. Her clothes were even shabbier than he had thought them. Only her fingers—she wore no gloves—seemed well cared for, and her shoes, though old, had been fashioned with a certain elegance.

"You don't look like a thief," he remarked.

"I suppose I look too stupid. All the same, I am one. I don't know what your profession is. If you are a detective, you ought to hunt me down and have me sent to prison."

"I am an insurance agent," he told her.

"Fires and that sort of thing?"

"Fire insurance is part of our business."

"Did you ever hear of the firm of Engelhart and Crisp in Surrey Street?" she asked.

He looked at her dubiously.

"Got into some sort of trouble, didn't they?"

"Mr. Crisp is in prison," she told him. "Mr. Engelhart spends most of his time hiding from people who want money from him. I have been carrying on the business—what there is to do."

"A very bad case of fraud," he pronounced. "If I were you, I would find another post."

"Nice references I should have, shouldn't I?"

"You have probably worked for other firms."

She shook her head.

"I went straight from school to Engelhart and Crisp. I think the firm engaged me because they believed that I should be tractable. You see, Mr. Crisp is my father."

"I'm awfully sorry—" he began.

"You needn't be. How were you to know? You wouldn't like to engage me yourself, I suppose? People are fighting rather shy of our firm just now."

"I haven't enough business to employ a secretary."

"I dare say I could bring you plenty. I might show you how to make money. I don't know, though," she went on. "You look almost painfully honest."

"If I am," he replied, "it is because I have no temptation to be otherwise. I have a certain amount of money outside of anything I earn."

She took the trouble to look at him more closely. Even then her eyes were devoid of any personal interest.

"Perhaps," she remarked, "that is just as well."

At the corner of Surrey Street he drew up by the kerb. She made no motion to leave the car.

"I don't want to go to the office this morning," he said. "I very seldom work on Saturday."

"Drive me somewhere, then," she suggested. "A very disagreeable man is probably coming to the office on a very disagreeable piece of business. I think it would be very much better if I didn't meet him. If I do what he wants me to do, I shall probably join my father in prison."

"What about Hindhead?"

"Any place," she answered listlessly. "Don't start for a moment, though, please."

Her face was turned from him. She was looking down the narrow, crowded street. He had no means of divining her thoughts, of making even a guess at the nature of her temporary irresolution.

"If you don't mind waiting for five minutes," she begged, "I think that I had better go down to the door, at any rate. The office boy may be there, and only Mr. Engelhart and I have keys to the place."

"Certainly," he agreed. "I will wait with pleasure."

She slipped from her place, and again as he watched her he took note of her graceful movements. She was gone a little longer than the five minutes which she had stipulated. When she returned she was walking quickly. She had come up the ascent with almost flying footsteps, but she was not in the least out of breath. She sank into her place with a sigh of relief. Her only comment was a brief one.

"I'm glad I went," she said.

* * * * *

It always seemed to Percy Rooke that the keynote of his relations with Miss Dorothy Crisp, as he discovered her name to be, was struck that morning when, later on, after a brief pause for an apéritif at a wayside inn, they drew up upon the fringe of a stretch of picturesque moorland country to light a cigarette. He laid his hand for a moment upon her slim cool fingers. She made no attempt to withdraw them, but her perfect impassivity would have chilled a far more amorous buccaneer than the middle-aged insurance agent. Her brief speech completed the douche.

"Of course," she said, "if you really care for that sort of thing, here I am. In your way I suppose you have been very kind to me and naturally you look for the usual sort of return. I wish I didn't hate it so much. I am one of those unfortunate people who seem to be born without a temperament and who hate being touched."

He rose nobly to the situation.

"To tell you the truth," he confided, "I am not much of a philanderer myself, but your hand is rather attractive."

"Well, that's all right," she observed with a relieved smile. "You must remember, after all, it's the hand of a criminal. If I doze off, don't be angry with me. I have accomplished something this morning which has been on my mind for a long time. Now I am happy, this air is glorious and I haven't slept for some nights."

"A good bit of road in front," he remarked cheerfully. "I've never tried out my fourth speed properly."

It was without a doubt a queer sort of day. They lunched pleasantly enough, but with the minimum of polite conversation. She vouchsafed no more revelations of her life, but when her companion had brought the car to a standstill at the spot which she indicated, and the moment for farewell came, she seemed to throw off her lethargy, to become for a few seconds intensely in earnest. Her eyes sought his, her fingers rested upon his hand.

"Please will you believe," she begged, "that I am very grateful indeed to you for to-day. You are very human and very nice. I say good-bye to you now and I want you to remember this—I regret nothing. I am quite, quite happy. Good-bye."

She checked the reply which was upon his lips, brushed aside his offer of assistance, sprang lightly out and disappeared down the street, at the corner of which they had drawn up, with a farewell wave of the hand. Percy Rooke drove back to his garage a little dazed by the enigmatic nature of her farewell.

"Pleasant day?" his cousin asked him as he strolled into the lounge a few minutes before dinner-time.

"Very restful," he answered. "I've been down to Hindhead. Any news?"

"More horrors," she replied with a grimace. "A man found dead in his office in the next street to yours."

"Which street?" he enquired.

"Surrey Street, I think it was. He was found in the office of that man who has gone to prison—Crisp. You know—the fire-insurance man."

Percy Rooke looked with unseeing eyes at the tray of cocktails which the butler was handing round.

"Evening papers arrived?" he asked in a queer strained voice.

"You'll find them in the lounge, Mr. Rooke," the man replied. "Can I get you one?"

Percy Rooke's reply was inaudible. He was already on his way to the lounge. He picked up the Evening Standard and found the paragraph he sought at once.


Late this afternoon the dead body of a man was discovered in the offices of Messrs. Engelhart & Crisp, Surrey Street, Strand. He had apparently been killed by a revolver bullet which had penetrated the heart and the state of the office seemed to indicate that a struggle had taken place before the fatal shot had been fired.

Later. The deceased man has been identified as Mr. Herbert Engelhart, principal of the firm of Engelhart & Crisp, insurance brokers. The junior partner is at present serving five years' penal servitude for fraud in connection with certain transactions in which the firm had been engaged. The deceased had also been charged, but acquitted. The police are anxious to obtain information as to the whereabouts of a young woman, secretary to the firm, who is reported to have been seen on her way to the office within a few minutes of the deceased's arrival.


The paper slipped from Rooke's fingers. He was not a brave man, and there was a chill feeling at his heart. He remembered the enigmatic words of his companion of the morning, her hesitation at leaving the car, the vacant look in her eyes upon her return. It was a horrible admission to have to make, but it seemed that he had very probably spent the day is close companionship with a murderess.

* * * * *

The moment which Rooke had dreaded with an almost overwhelming fear, which had kept him stretched upon the rack through long sleepless nights, brought him upon its arrival an extraordinary, an almost unbelievable sense of tranquillity. The scene was exactly as he had pictured it—horrible in its intense and dramatic reality. There was the judge only a few feet away—a stern, inhuman figure of fate. There were the rows of bewigged counsel, the crowd of eager spectators pinned in behind, the still, white figure of the prisoner in the dock, standing as he had imagined she might, her hands folded in front of her, a lifeless calm on her set expressionless features. The duskiness of the court, the close atmosphere which he had dreaded, the subdued, occasional whispering, the periods of spellbound silence, were all in evidence. He could scarcely believe, as he leaned forward in calm preparation for his ordeal, that the moment had really arrived, that it was really he—Percy Rooke —the man of nerves and many forms of cowardice, who stood there with a great responsibility upon his shoulders, the man for whose evidence the whole Court was waiting, the man who was the object of palpable curiosity to those nine men and three women kept rigidly apart, leaning forward now that the crucial moment had arisen. The counsel for the defence, who had delayed for a few moments to confer with his clerk, turned towards him. The examination had begun. It was all so easy—nothing to do but reply to simple questions.

"Your name is Percy Rooke?"

"Percy Rooke."

"You are an insurance agent with offices in Norfolk Street?"

"Yes."

"On the morning of the thirteenth of May you saw the prisoner for the first time in the neighbourhood of the Hampstead Broadway?"

"That is so."

"Will you tell the Court what happened?"

Percy Rooke turned slightly towards the jury.

His voice was well pitched and clear. He seemed almost the perfect witness.

"I was driving my car to the office at about nine o'clock," he said. "I saw her on the sidewalk, endeavouring to board a bus. They were all full, however, so I pulled up and offered her a lift. I took her as far as Surrey Street."

"That was the first time you had met the prisoner?" the judge enquired.

"The first time, my lord."

"Continue, if you please."

"I passed almost the same spot again on the morning of the fourteenth of May. I did not at first see the prisoner on that occasion, but when I pulled up to light a cigarette I saw her standing by the side of the car. I invited her to enter and we started off at once for the City."

"Had the prisoner any luggage?" counsel asked.

"An ordinary handbag under her arm. I happened to notice it because it seemed to me singular that she should be carrying in her hand also a small bunch of keys."

There was a subdued murmur in court. The mention of the keys carried with it a tremendous significance.

"Did you have any conversation with the prisoner on the drive to the City?"

"I remarked that it was a fine morning," the witness continued, "and I suggested that perhaps instead of going to the office she would like to take a drive into the country."

"And the prisoner's reply?"

"She hesitated for some time. She admitted that she was very tired, and that she would like to come, but she seemed uncertain about her work at the office."

"You knew with whom she was employed?"

"She had told me her name on the previous morning."

"You knew of the unfortunate position in which the firm of which her father was a member was involved?"

"Certainly."

"Now tell me," counsel went on, "what happened when you pulled up at the corner of Surrey Street?"

"I repeated my invitation. The prisoner said that she must go down and see if she was wanted at the office, and if not she would return in a few minutes. I opened the door for her and she stepped out."

"Did she take the handbag with her?"

"She was carrying it under her arm."

"What about the keys?"

Again there was that indrawn breath of suspense throughout the court. The witness's voice had never been more clear.

"I did not see them at the time," he replied.

"During the journey," counsel continued, "you did not see the prisoner slip the keys into her bag?"

"I am sure that she did nothing of the sort," was the firm reply. "I must have noticed it."

"Very well," counsel went on, hitching his gown a little farther up on his shoulder. "Tell us what happened afterwards."

"The prisoner was gone barely five minutes. When she returned she stepped back into the car and said that it would be quite all right for her to be away from the office for the day. We started off immediately."

"The prisoner did not seem to you in any way discomposed or flurried on her return?"

"Not in the least."

"She had no appearance of having passed through any exciting experience?"

"She was perfectly calm."

"She spoke of nothing which might have occurred at the office?"

"Nothing."

"Now, Mr. Rooke, I am going to return to the subject of the keys," counsel continued. "You say that, so far as your knowledge and observation went, the prisoner left the car without the keys. She returned with the bag still under her arm. When did you next see the keys?"

"Within the next ten minutes or so," witness replied. "I noticed that she was peering about in the bottom of the car and feeling the cushions behind and I asked her what was the matter."

"And what did she reply?"

"She told me that she was taking French leave from the office, because when she had arrived there she found that she had not taken the keys and the door was locked. We were in a traffic jam, so I helped in the search. We discovered them at the back of the cushions where she had been seated."

"You discovered the keys," counsel repeated. "Your impression is then that the keys had remained in the car all the time that the prisoner had left you to visit the office?"

"That is not an impression. It is a certainty."

This time the murmur was almost one of agitation.

"During the rest of the day did the prisoner show any signs of depression or excitement?"

"She seemed perfectly normal. I knew, of course, that she must be in trouble, because I had taken some interest in the case in which her father had been concerned, and I knew that the business was being wound up, but she did not refer to it—no more did I."

"And to use your own words, Mr. Rooke—I must be insistent on this point— there was no time during the day which you spent together when the prisoner gave you any impression of being upset or disturbed?"

"Not for one moment," was the emphatic assertion. "She was inclined to be depressed, but she seemed to be enjoying the drive, and our lunch together. When we parted she thanked me for the day and left me with the impression that she had enjoyed it."

The counsel glanced at the judge, he glanced at the jury and resumed his seat. There was a brief pause and then almost a buzz of conversation. The judge looked around severely. Counsel for the prosecution rose to his feet amidst a dead silence. The nervous little man in the box prepared for his ordeal with no visible effort.

"According to your evidence, Mr. Rooke," the former began quietly, "your acquaintance with the prisoner commenced on the day before the committal of the crime with which she is charged?"

"That is so."

"You picked her up in the street and drove her to the City?"

"Precisely."

"And the next day you did the same thing?"

"Yes."

"Is it a habit of yours to drive round offering free rides to attractive-looking women?"

"No."

"Why did you do it on this occasion, then?"

"I thought that the young lady looked very tired and the buses were very full."

"I see. Your action, then, was one of pure good nature?"

"It seemed so to me. It was an action perhaps liable to be misunderstood by people with an unpleasant outlook upon life."

Counsel for the prosecution frowned. He glanced angrily towards the back of the court, from which came the sound of subdued chuckles.

"When the prisoner stepped into the car with her bag under her arm and the bunch of keys in her hand didn't it occur to you as strange that she did not put the keys in the bag?"

"No."

"Answer this question carefully if you please. When did you next see the keys after the prisoner had seated herself by your side and you had driven off?"

"When we fished them out from behind the cushion."

"That was after the prisoner had left you for five or ten minutes to visit her office?"

"Certainly. We were well on the way to Guildford."

"So that the keys, according to you, were in the car during the temporary absence of the prisoner?"

"Certainly."

"You are asking the Court to believe, then, that the prisoner entered your car with the keys in her hand, showing, I imagine, the importance she attached to them, that she got out at the top of Surrey Street to visit her office knowing that she could enter it in no way except with the help of those keys, but still leaving them behind her?"

"That is certainly what she did."

"You will swear that according to the best of your belief and knowledge— you are on your oath, remember—it was impossible for her to have had the keys with her when she left the car to visit her office?"

"It was quite impossible."

"She could not, whilst you were occupied in driving, have brought them out from her bag afterwards or her pocket and have slipped them under the seat by her side?"

"Quite impossible."

Counsel for the prosecution resumed his seat. Almost immediately his place was taken by the counsel for the defence.

"I wish to ask the witness, with your lordship's permission, only one more question," he said. "The matter, however, is of such vital importance that, notwithstanding the clear and convincing way in which the witness has given his evidence, I shall ask him to make one repetition. It was in your opinion impossible for the prisoner to have left your car to pay her visit to the office with the keys in her possession?"

"It was a sheer impossibility," was the calm reply.

There was a portentous murmur when Percy Rooke left the box. A whole train of damning circumstantial evidence seemed suddenly to have lost its point. Counsel were whispering together. There was an audible burst of conversation. Percy Rooke heard nothing. He felt only the policeman's kindly hand upon his arm as he was guided towards a chair. He felt the water trickling down his throat. The court was going up and down. That murmur of conversation had become like thunder in his ears. Soon he was outside, being helped along the passages. Fresh air came to him like a wonderful thing. The bonds seemed to fall away. He had survived his ordeal.

* * * * *

"Tell me how it really feels," his distant relative, Ann Rooke, begged that evening at dinner-time, "to be the hero of an occasion?"

"Isn't that rather exaggerating the affair?" Percy Rooke remonstrated.

"I don't think so," was the confident reply. "You had to submit yourself to examination and cross-examination by two of the cleverest men at the Bar, with the jury listening intently to every word, and knowing that a mistake, a contradiction, even a hesitation, and that poor girl might have been hanged. I don't call myself a nervous person, but I should have been terrified to death."

"I agree with Ann," Colin Rooke declared. "All the other evidence had gone against the girl. It was proved that it had been the dead man's evidence which had sent her father to penal servitude. It was proved that there had been ill-feeling between the two, owing to the girl having resisted his advances. The medical testimony was to the effect that the wound could only have been self-inflicted with great difficulty, and the revolver was proved to have belonged to the girl's father and had been kept in a drawer of the desk. It was only necessary to prove that the girl had obtained access to the office when she left you to go there and the jury would have had to find her guilty."

"She might have knocked at the door," Phillip Rooke suggested, "and Engelhart might have let her in."

"If you had heard the rest of the evidence, you would have realised how unlikely that was," Colin pointed out. "Engelhart was obviously anxious to avoid a meeting with her. He had left word that if she came to the office while he was there she was not to be allowed to go up. If she insisted on mounting the stairs and knocking at the door, he told the doorkeeper that he would refuse to open it, and no notice need be taken, however persistent she might be. The doorkeeper happened to arrive a little late that morning, but even if he had been present, in the face of Engelhart's stern injunction it is certain that he would not have admitted her. Unless she had brought her own keys she would never have obtained admission to the office. Engelhart had very serious reasons for wishing to avoid her, and Saturday was a day upon which she was not supposed to go to Surrey Street. Hence his presence there."

"Mr. Henslow, the barrister, who is staying with us," Mrs. Rooke confided, "takes exactly the same view. He maintains that if it could have been proved that the girl had the keys with her when she left the car, or that she had them when she returned, she would probably have been found guilty. He paid you a great compliment, Mr. Rooke," she went on, smiling across at Percy, "on the manner in which you gave your evidence and the uncompromising way you answered questions. Even Sir Richard, clever, brilliant man though he is, could not lure you into a single contradiction or evasion. You spoke like a man who knew the truth and meant the whole of the rest of the world to know it, too."

Percy Rooke bowed his acknowledgment.

"I wonder," Ann reflected, "how that poor girl is spending the evening?"

"She must have friends," Colin observed. "I saw in our late edition that she had left for either abroad or the country. She must be blessing you, Percy."

"What for?" he asked calmly.

"For your marvellous evidence."

Percy Rooke's reply was for a moment or two delayed. He glanced around at the adjoining tables. It was obvious that no one was within hearing.

"Isn't it the law," he asked Colin Rooke, "that a person who has been charged with the crime of murder and has been found not guilty can never be charged again for the same offence?"

"That is the law," the journalist admitted.

Rooke dabbed at his forehead with a highly perfumed handkerchief. He reached for the bottle, filled his glass with champagne and drank it off. His unnatural state of repression left him. He was a human being once more.

"I should not think," he said, "that there is a man alive who could have sent a girl with a smile like hers to the gallows. My evidence," he concluded, after one more glance around, "was a tissue of lies!"</story>