<story title="WORKING BACKWARDS" date="1927">
ANGUS glanced up from behind the pages of the Financial Times which he had been studying intently and looked across towards his partner.

"Pudgy, old man," he enquired, "do you know anything about hosiery?"

Peter Bragg looked around in some surprise.

"As much as other men, I suppose. I flatter myself, indeed," he
went on, "that I have a somewhat correct taste in socks. I always
get mine at Beale and Inman's. As regards underclothes—"

"Oh, shut up!" Angus interrupted. " I don't mean that at all. I mean hosiery—as one of the great commodities of the land—hosiery, the product of great commercial enterprises. Huge works up North, you know, chock-full of machinery, where they turn yarn into jerseys and underclothes and God knows what, and issue prospectuses and pay enormous dividends and that sort of thing."

Peter Bragg for the first time noticed the paper which his partner was reading.

"What are you doing—quoting from a prospectus?" he asked. Angus shook his head.

"I was looking to see if I could find the price of some shares. Funny thing, but I met three men yesterday, all on the Stock Exchange, and each one of them took me on one side to ask if I had a little money to spare. Perfectly wonderful tip they had—three hosiery companies up in the North somewhere. Shares bound to go up twenty-five per cent, within a month."

"I should stick to the horses," Peter Bragg advised. "You'll lose less."

"Yes, but listen," Angus continued. "I was dining at home last night and there were one or two City men there. That chap Roscoe was one of them."

"Sir Theodore Roscoe," Peter Bragg repeated, in a tone almost of awe. "Marvellous man, George. A real self-made multi-millionaire."

"Well, they asked him about this over the port. There was a banking chap there who asked him point-blank whether a rumour which was going about the Stock Exchange that some very interesting amalgamations were under consideration was true. Pretty snappy, old Roscoe was. Wouldn't answer any questions and asked the banker quite rudely where he'd heard that such a thing was likely? I could have told him that it seems to be all over the Stock Exchange, but he's a formidable-looking old boy, Peter. I should hate to be the fellow in his office who's been gassing. Here's one of the companies," he went on adjusting his monocle and bending lower over the paper. "Leicestershire Hosiery Company, pound shares twenty-eight shillings, plus eighteen pence—went up eighteenpence yesterday, Peter."

"My young friend," Peter Bragg advised, "put that paper away. If there's any cheap money of that sort to be picked up, the Stock Exchange will do it for themselves. It's only when there's a risk they're so anxious to oblige their clients."

"Beastly cynic!" Angus muttered.

There was a knock at the door and the butler entered with a card. The last three or four days at the Bellevue, as also at Strand House, had been singularly devoid of interest. Visitors at the former establishment had been either wine merchants, tobacconists, or advertising agents, and Angus had lost that little thrill which the sight of Groves bearing an oblong strip of pasteboard had usually inspired in him. He glanced expectantly towards his partner, however, before returning to his newspaper.

"Sir Theodore Roscoe," Peter Bragg murmured, laying the card upon the table by his side. "Somewhat of a coincidence, George, eh? Show him in, Groves," he directed. "Show Sir Theodore in at once."

Sir Theodore Roscoe—"the people's millionaire," as he was sometimes called, head of one of the greatest industrial concerns of the Kingdom, man of vast wealth and varying interests—duly entered the room, shook hands cursorily with Peter Bragg and occupied the client's chair. He was a big, broad-shouldered person, fresh-coloured, with bushy eyebrows, a prominent jaw and keen, steel-coloured eyes. Even after years of prosperity, of ungrudging admission to the ranks of any society he cared to enter, he wore his City clothes with an air of distaste, even awkwardness. Yet he presented an impressive, almost a striking appearance as he settled himself comfortably in his chair and, before stating his business, glanced across at Angus.

"My partner, Mr. Angus," Peter Bragg explained.

"Met you last night dining at the governor's, sir," Angus reminded Mm, coming forward and shaking hands.

Sir Theodore nodded.

"I remember," he admitted. "You were sitting opposite to me, weren't you, when Lord Morden asked me those damnably impertinent questions about the Midland Hosiery Companies?"

"I was," Angus confessed. "I didn't understand much about it, of course."

"A man in Lord Morden's position," Sir Theodore declared stiffly, "should know better than to ask questions about an important stroke of business like that before the deals are arranged."

"If you'll forgive my saying so, sir," Angus confided, "there are a good many people seem to know about it. I was given the tip several times yesterday by men who knew something on the Stock Exchange to buy shares in some companies which they said your people were going to take over."

Sir Theodore's eyes for a moment glittered.

"If you take my advice, young man," he said grimly, "you'll wait. I don't know what view my directors may take of the present situation—they'll probably do what I suggest.... I suppose I may take it for granted that from now on anything I say will be treated confidentially?"

"Absolutely," both partners echoed.

"Then if I had my way at the present moment," Sir Theodore continued, "I should be inclined to drop the amalgamation scheme altogether. We have now arrived at the reason for my visit to you. A robbery has taken place, either from my offices in Basinghall Street, or from my house in Park Lane. Information of the most confidential nature has been made, comparatively speaking, public property after it has no doubt served the purpose of the thief. I am here to consult you on the matter."

"Pray proceed, Sir Theodore," Peter Bragg begged.

"The affairs of Roscoe's, Limited, are administered by a board of directors numbering seven. For all practical purposes, however, three of us make the decisions, obtaining formal confirmation from a full board afterwards. Some time ago we decided to use a certain amount of surplus capital buying up various mills in Leicestershire and Yorkshire whose competition is frequently annoying. The only question was which of these mills we should buy and at what price. We had a meeting, just the three of us, in the offices at Basinghall Street a week ago and came to certain decisions which I jotted down on paper. We were on the point of calling a Directors' Meeting to obtain formal sanction for the undertaking, when we discovered that the notes I had made at our private conference had been copied by some unauthorised person and had passed out of our possession."

"Not the information only?" Peter Bragg enquired. "You mean the actual document?"

"The actual document has been stolen," Sir Theodore assented, "and a copy left in its place."

Peter Bragg looked a little puzzled.

"Why shouldn't the thief have taken a copy and left you the original?" he demanded.

"A legitimate question," Sir Theodore admitted. "We can only conceive that, having succeeded in making a copy which was remarkably like the original, he at the last moment was either careless as to which he took away with him, or was himself deceived. I, in fact, was the only one who noticed any difference, as the whole thing was in my handwriting. There is a slight tear in the second page, however, of which I have no recollection, and there is a trifling difference in the figuring."

"Before we go into details of the robbery," Peter Bragg remarked, "I should like to be quite clear about one thing. You attribute the rise in the shares of these companies to information dispensed by the thief?"

"There is not the slightest doubt about that. Textiles generally are sluggish. The only three shares which have advanced at all are the three companies mentioned in my document."

"Have they advanced as much as the information would warrant?"

"I can't say that they have," Sir Theodore admitted. " The people who are in possession of the information are too clever for that. They will wait until our decisions have been sanctioned by the full board and then go for the shares bald-headed."

"And where exactly is your loss in the matter?"

Sir Theodore snorted impatiently.

"We are to take the shares over at the market price," he pointed out, "and that market price to-day in the three companies concerned is two hundred thousand pounds more than it was. Apart from that, some of us were proposing, quite legitimately, to purchase blocks of shares ourselves."

"One question more on this side of the matter?" Peter Bragg concluded. "You never had any doubt, I suppose, but that the companies you selected would agree to your terms?"

"There was never any doubt about that at all," Sir Theodore replied, because as it happens, we had secured between us a preponderant vote in each of the companies."

Peter Bragg reflected for a moment.

"Supposing," he said, "that this is a theft of the usual sort—that a secretary or an official in your company has possessed himself of the document and copied it—supposing that by introducing one of our detectives amongst your staff I were able to find the guilty person, exactly how would that help you? The news of your intentions, as is proved by the rise in the shares, has already been made public."

"A very reasonable comment, Mr. Bragg," Sir Theodore observed approvingly. "At the same time, however, there are other considerations. I can, without a doubt, directly or indirectly, ruin the thief if I discover who he is. Naturally such retaliatory measures would depend upon how much mischief he has done. Whoever he may be he's not a fool, or he would never have succeeded. So far the advance in the shares has been something like ten per cent. If the actual document in my handwriting had been shown, the advance would probably have been nearer thirty. If we can discover him before our Directors' Meeting and secure the return of the paper, we can at any rate avoid a portion of the loss."

"The idea was, I think you said," Peter Bragg reflected, "that you should take the shares over at the market price."

Sir Theodore nodded gloomily.

"That," he pointed out, "is where we have been hit. If they go much higher before we can conclude the deal, our profit will have disappeared."

"And now as regards the details of this theft?" Peter Bragg enquired. "How many of the directors were present when you made these pencilled notes which were afterwards stolen?"

"Three of us. In the City, in our own circle, at any rate, we are generally known as the 'Big Three,' probably because whatever we decide goes with the remaining directors. The other two are Sir Henry Moses and Lord Mountleaven. All three of us met in the Directors' Room of my offices in Basinghall Street on Thursday afternoon. Mr. Jameson, the secretary of the Company, was present, and also Sir Philip Groves, our auditor—five of us altogether. I talked to them for some time as to the position of the various companies whose products might be of use to us, and finally, on a piece of notepaper which I drew from the rack, I wrote down the names of the three companies which I proposed we should take over and a brief note as to the terms. I passed this round the table and it was inspected by my two fellow-directors and by Sir Philip Groves. Mr. Jameson was out of the room at the time, and the document was not shown to him. There was no discussion; everyone was agreed, and our meeting was over. I placed the half sheet of notepaper in my pocket-book where it remained throughout the day. When I changed for dinner I withdrew the pocket-book myself, carried it with me all the evening and at night I placed it in a small safe that stands by my bedside which has not only an infallible lock but is fitted with an electric alarm bell. In the morning I took it out and soon after my arrival at the office I deposited the half sheet of paper in the safe of the Directors' Room in Basinghall Street. Twenty-four hours afterwards the movement in the shares began. I went at once to the safe and found the half sheet of notepaper apparently just as I had left it, but there was a tear which I did not recognise, and the shape of some of the figures seemed to be unfamiliar to me. I came to the conclusion at once that I was looking at a copy of my original notes and not at the original itself."

"Who else possesses the keys of the safe, Sir Theodore?" Peter Bragg asked, after a moment's pause.

"Only my cashier, John Spurrell, who has been with the firm for thirty-seven years, a man entirely above suspicion. The keys are attached to a steel chain which he wears and were never out of his possession/'

"Have you any theory yourself, Sir Theodore?" Peter Bragg asked after a moment's pause,

"None whatever," was the blunt response. "Whichever way I look I seem to be up against a cul-de-sac."

"Your secretary?"

"A young man of the highest character and connections. He is also wealthy and ambitious. As a matter of fact he was not in the room when I wrote down the names of the companies."

"I should like," Peter Bragg said, "to see your Directors' Room."

"My car is downstairs," Sir Theodore answered. "I will take you there with pleasure—and your partner, too, if he cares to come," he added, with a glance towards Angus.

The three men drove in Sir Theodore's limousine down to the palatial offices of Roscoe's, Limited, in Basinghall Street. They passed across a marble floor between an array of mahogany desks, to a more silent corridor, on either side of which were solid doors, upon whose panels were painted the names of various magnates of the firm. At the end was a room, the door of which Sir Theodore opened with a key from his chain.

"This, gentlemen," he announced, "is the Directors' Room."

He led the way into a handsome, almost stately apartment, with an oak table in the middle around which were set a dozen chairs. The whole of the wall at one end was taken up by a huge safe. Opposite it hung a fine oil painting of Sir Theodore. Around the other two walls were hung photographs of various properties of the Company in all corners of the earth.

"Will you reconstruct the meeting so far as you can," Peter Bragg suggested. "Call in your secretary, for instance."

Sir Theodore rang a bell, gave some instructions, and a serious-looking young man presently entered whom he introduced as Mr. Jameson. Sir Theodore explained the situation, and seated himself in one of the arm-chairs opposite a rack of stationery. Mr. Jameson took a chair at his left-hand side; opposite, Bragg and Angus represented Sir Henry Moses and Lord Mountleaven respectively. A chair turned up at the far end of the table represented Sir Philip Groves.

"We had been discussing the prospects of the various companies," Sir Theodore announced, "and finally I took a half sheet of paper from the rack and wrote as I am doing now. Whilst I was engaged like this Mr. Jameson received a summons upon the telephone, left the room and did not return until our business was concluded."

"And you wrote in pencil?" Peter Bragg enquired.

"Purposely," was the grim reply. "I once had a lesson about blotting pads."

Peter Bragg glanced around the room and afterwards strolled over and examined the safe.

"You're absolutely certain that the pocket-book never left your possession until you reached home that night, Sir Theodore?" he asked.

"Absolutely certain."

"Well," he said, "I don't think we need make any further demands upon your time for the present, Sir Theodore."

"What steps do you propose taking?" the latter enquired. " 'll engage anyone you like to send down here as an employee if you think there's anyone who ought to be watched."

Peter Bragg shook his head.

"Not that sort of case, I am afraid, Sir Theodore," he remarked. "We shall have to approach it from a different angle."

"You wouldn't like to put anyone in my house? My servant never even handled the pocket-book, but you can cross-question him if you wish to."

"I don't think your servant could have been concerned in this, Sir Theodore," Peter Bragg replied. "The whole affair is a little unusual, isn't it? We shall have to find an unusual method of dealing with it."

"You'll remember that time presses," Sir Theodore reminded them, as he showed his visitors out. It will pay you to give your whole attention to the matter. Your usual fees you will receive in any case, of course, and there will be a thousand pounds from my private purse, and another thousand from the firm if you can discover the person who copied my figures and is making use of them now."

"A very princely fee," Peter Bragg murmured, as he took his leave.

"What do you think of it Pudgy?" Angus asked, as they clattered back to the Bellevue in a humble taxi. His partner coughed.

"At present," he admitted," I do not permit myself to think seriously. I don't want to get a wrong idea into my head. I'm just sending out feelers."

Angus thrust his head through the open window and stopped the driver.

"That," he said, "must be exhausting. Lucky we're just passing the Carlton. What we both need is a cocktail."

"I do not agree with your presumption that alcohol is a natural incentive to the imagination," Peter Bragg declared deliberately, as he followed his companion. "Nevertheless, on this occasion—"

"Two dry Martinis," Angus ordered.

About an hour after lunch that afternoon, Peter Bragg roused himself from what appeared to be a very peaceful and profound slumber.

"George," he enquired, "do you know any stockbrokers?"

"Heaps," Angus admitted. "Jolly good fellows, some of them, too. Why?"

His partner rang the bell which summoned Miss Ash.

"My cheque-book, if you please," he demanded.

Neat and noiseless as ever, his secretary produced it and laid it upon the table before him.

"Your balance, sir," she whispered, "is ..."

Peter Bragg nodded. He was thinking how pleasant that whisper was and wondering how she arrived at the faint perfume which hung about her severely brushed hair.

"I am not going to dip very largely into it. Miss Ash," he assured her.

"Fill in the counterfoil clearly, please," she enjoined. "I could scarcely read your figures last time."

She disappeared as noiselessly as she had come. Peter Bragg glanced at the clock and wrote out a cheque payable to George Angus, Esq., for a thousand pounds.

"You probably won't want this money, George," he said—"stockbrokers will buy trifles for you without. Still, you had better cash the cheque and have the notes in your pocket. I want you to go to as many stockbrokers as you know and buy in small parcels several hundred shares of Leicester Hosiers, Yates and Perrin, Limited, of Hinkley, and Grateson's, Limited, of Ludborough. Don't buy any two lots from the same broker."

"That's easy business, Peter," Angus agreed. "Might cost you money, though, mightn't it? These shares are all up and if the old man gets a degree more shirty it's odds against the amalgamation coming off."

"It may cost a little money, without a doubt," Peter Bragg assented. "On the other hand, the drop, if it comes, won't be more than a few shillings, and there's two thousand pounds waiting for us if we have any luck."

"I don't quite see the idea," Angus admitted.

"It isn't an idea," his partner confessed—"it's just a feeler. And George—"

"Hullo!"

"Be here punctually in the morning and accept no fresh business without consulting Miss Ash. I'm going to take three days' holiday."

"Liar!" Angus scoffed. "Where are you off to?"

"On what may probably turn out to be a forlorn hope," Peter Bragg replied with dignity, "the nature of which I am not disposed to declare at present."

In three days Peter Bragg was back again. He said nothing about his journey, but he questioned Angus closely concerning his own operations.

"I have followed out instructions," the latter recounted. "Altogether I have spent about eleven hundred and fifty pounds, and I never bought more than fifty shares from any one firm. I see the price is up again a trifle this morning so there's a small profit on them already."

"That is of no consequence," Peter Bragg replied. "We are not dealing with that in view. Did you get my letter?"

"I did, and in several cases I succeeded. One firm wouldn't tell me anything about the seller—said they didn't know themselves until they got the shares, and that I must wait for the transfers. One other refused point-blank, said it wasn't usual, but all the others came up to the scratch. Curious thing, too, each lot of the other shares, except one, was sold by the same person."

Peter Bragg's eyes glittered for a moment behind his spectacles.

"What was his name?" he demanded.

"Jack Jacobs, of 17, Ludgate Circus."

Peter Bragg spoke for a few minutes on the telephone. Then he leaned back in his chair deep in thought.

"Sir Theodore has rung up twice," Angus confided. "He seemed very curious to know why you'd gone off into the country and what you were doing. He's coming in this morning. I expect that's his ring."

Sir Theodore presented himself a little brusquely. He made no attempt to shake hands with either of the two young men.

"I've been hoping to hear from you, Mr. Bragg," he said, as he threw himself back in his client's chair. "Is it your custom to absent yourself from your office for three days directly you have an important case placed in your hands?"

"I had nothing to report for the moment, Sir Theodore," was the apologetic reply.

"When I put this matter in your hands," Sir Theodore went on, with a certain amount of irritation in his tone, "I hoped that you might consider it of sufficient importance to have devoted your whole time to it. What the devil do you mean by going out of Town within twenty-four hours of taking the job on? Golfing, I suppose, eh?"

"I can assure you," Peter Bragg rejoined quietly, "that I have been doing nothing of the sort. My temporary absence from London was entirely upon your business."

Sir Theodore's bushy eyebrows drew closer and closer together.

"My business? What the devil do you mean?" he demanded. "The theft took place here in London, and the mischief's being done here, too. So far as I can make out, you haven't made a move of any sort. No one from your place has been near Basinghall Street or Park Lane. I ring you up for a little information and am simply told that you are out of Town. What the devil have you been doing down in the country?"

Peter Bragg coughed. "Sir Theodore," he said, "you must forgive ine if, for the moment, I keep my own counsel. I am working in your interests, but I am working in a manner of my own. I have not even confided in my partner here."

Sir Theodore thrust his hands into his trousers pockets and his underlip protruded more than ever.

"Well, I hope to God you're doing something," he said gloomily. "I had a talk with my directors yesterday afternoon, and they're all pretty savage. The shares in every one of those three companies are up between five and seven points since that paper was stolen and copied. The thieving scoundrel, whoever he may be, has helped himself already to nearly half our profits."

"I noticed the rise in the quotations," Peter Bragg admitted.

"I tell you what we decided to do yesterday afternoon," Sir Theodore went on. "We are going to double the reward. Two thousand pounds from each of us, Mr. Bragg. That's worth setting your wits to work about, isn't it?"

"It is an amazingly generous offer. I am glad to say, too, that I have every confidence in our being able to earn it."

Sir Theodore looked at the speaker keenly.

"Good!" he grunted. "If you don't I'm not at all sure that the whole deal won't fall through. Our idea was to take the three concerns over at about the price the shares stood at a month ago, and not for someone cleverer than us to boost them up and make a fortune for themselves. I want the amalgamation, but I'm damned if we feel like being milked like this. Why, they're making fun of us in the City," Sir Theodore went on, with growing anger in his tone. "My own bank manager called me into his office yesterday and asked me why we couldn't have kept the figures quiet until we closed the deal. Kept them quiet indeed! What the hell more could we do? Can you yourself suggest any possible way, Mr. Bragg, in which we could have taken more care of that slip of paper?"

"I certainly cannot. The fact that it should have been taken from your pocket-book without your knowledge during the period of time you have stated presents one of the toughest problems I have ever encountered."

"Nevertheless," Sir Theodore declared, as he rose to his feet, "it's up to you to solve it. Remember, too, that every hour's delay is costing us thousands."

The financier took his leave, still curt and morose. Angus indulged in a little grimace as the door closed behind him.

"Pudgy," he confided. "I don't like that fellow."

"I have never yet met a man worth five millions whom I did like," Peter Bragg replied dryly.

"Five millions! Is he really worth as much as that?" Angus asked, in a tone almost of awe.

His partner leaned back in his chair and played with a letter opener.

"It has interested me," he recounted, "especially as our staff at Strand House has little to do at the moment, to make enquiries about all the people concerned in this affair. One thing I have discovered is that Sir Theodore is a far wealthier man even than people believe. He is almost the largest inscribed holder of War Loan, and, although he has always refused to become a director, he is very nearly the largest shareholder in the most prosperous oil company in the world. His bank deposits, too, I am told, are simply amazing. He likes to keep huge sums of money where he can lay his hand upon them quickly in case anything special turns up. He lent a European Government five millions the other day—a short term loan—absolutely off his own bat. He's a rough chap, George, and disagreeable, but there's a sort of glamour about wealth like that."

Angus nodded sympathetically.

"All the same," he confided, "I don't like his manners...."

At four o'clock that afternoon a report from Strand House was brought in by special messenger. Peter Bragg pored over it for a quarter of an hour with obvious satisfaction.

"Anything doing?" Angus enquired eagerly.

"Just a glimmer of light," his partner admitted. "It may be a will-o'-the-wisp or it may be illumination."

Angus strolled over to the table.

"You're being devilish secretive about this matter, Pudgy," he complained. "Have you anyone from Strand House at Park Lane or at Basinghall Street?"

Peter Bragg shook his head.

"I haven't made a single enquiry at either place," he confided. "I have left all the obvious methods entirely alone. On the other hand, I have one of our shrewdest men and our most beautiful lady assistant haunting the footsteps of Mr. Jack Jacobs, of Ludgate Circus."

"And who the devil's he?" Angus demanded.

"The man who is selling shares in Leicestershire Hosiery, Yates and Perrin, and Grateson's as fast as the market will absorb them. That little piece of information was due to your efforts."

Angus tapped a cigarette upon the desk and lit it.

"I believe you're a damned deep fellow, Pudgy," he observed.

Peter Bragg accepted the compliment as his due.

"I know," he confessed modestly, "when to leave the obvious stuff alone and to start an affair backwards."

"But where the devil does this fellow Jack Jacobs come in anyhow? What's he got to do with the theft of the paper?" Angus demanded.

"The latter part of your question must remain unanswered for the moment," was the quiet reply. "As regards the rest, if you would care to make his acquaintance, do it now. You will have time to catch him before he leaves his office. Your visit may prove interesting."

"What's to be my line with him?"

"In the first place," Peter Bragg explained earnestly, "you must not disclose your connection with Strand House or with me. You must pose as being a member, or better still a half commission man in a stock exchange firm. Tell him that you understand he is a large holder of Grateson's and Leicestershire Hosiery and Yates and Perrin, and ask him whether it would be possible to arrange a deal outside the market. Get him to make you a firm offer, and there the matter will end. You needn't tell him the name of the house you're supposed to be acting for, but keep your eyes open and bring me word what you think of the man and his business."

Angus took up his hat and stick.

"Await my report," he enjoined. "I will make a profound study of this man with the impossible name. I flatter myself that I shall look the part—an aristocratic tout being made use of by my employers. Something of an ass I must seem to be, I suppose. Pudgy, what?"

"Be perfectly natural," was the dry rejoinder, "and please close the door."

Angus had four flights of stairs to climb before he arrived at the offices of Mr. Jack Jacobs, of Ludgate Circus, which, although he was in excellent condition and arrived without breathlessness, rather annoyed him. A small girl advanced to the counter and enquired his business. A rapid glance around disclosed a vista of two typists, one seedy-looking bookkeeper, a couple of youths, and an amazing number of business files.

"I should like to see Mr. Jacobs if he is at liberty," Angus announced.

There was no difficulty at all. Angus was shown forthwith into a bare and dusty-looking office where, at an untidy table, littered all over with papers, a weary-looking man with high cheek-bones, sallow complexion and piercing black eyes, was seated writing. He laid down his pen and looked at his visitor in some surprise, shading his eyes a little with his hand from the light.

"My name is on the card I sent in. I have called to see you on a matter of business, Mr. Jacobs," Angus confided.

The financier waved him to a chair. He seemed very tired and the weariness of his body was reflected in his tone.

"What can I do for you?" he asked.

Angus hitched up his trousers at the knees, moved closer to the table, and adopted a confidential tone.

"I'm in with a firm of stockbrokers," he explained—"won't tell you their name for the moment, if you don't mind. I'm only a sort of half commission bloke—you know what I mean—but they've asked me to come and see you instead of sending one of the firm as the business they want to open up is a bit on the q.t...."

Mr. Jacobs again shaded the upper portion of his face with his hand. Notwithstanding his fatigue there was a very bright, enquiring look in his deep-set eyes.

"What is this business?" he enquired.

"My people have been told," Angus continued, "that you are a large holder of Grateson's, Leicestershire Hosiery, and Yates and Perrin—the companies, you know, that Roscoe's are going to take over."

"How do you know that Roscoe's are going to take them over?" Jacobs asked swiftly.

Angus looked at him reproachfully.

"Pretty common property in the City, isn't it?" he rejoined. "Anyway, my people have been told that you hold a good many of these shares. They'd like to have a little flutter in them, but the market, as you know, is a rising one, and if they go to the brokers they'll have forced the shares up many points before they could buy enough to make it worth while. Would you like to make an outside deal, Mr. Jacobs?"

"I should like to know the name of your firm before I answer that question," was the blunt reply.

"I can't tell you that this afternoon. You can take it, however, that they're good for any amount you can mention. If you'll make us an offer of your stock, Mr. Jacobs, instead of dribbling it out on to the market, you shall have our decision by eleven o'clock to-morrow morning, and a cheque for the shares upon delivery, whether it's a thousand pounds' worth or a million."

Mr. Jacobs drew a small ledger from a drawer by his side and studied it for a moment.

"I hold fifty-eight thousand Grateson's, twenty-two thousand Leicestershire Hosiery, and ninety thousand Yates and Perrin," he announced.

"The devil you do!" Angus replied, a little startled. "Isn't that rather a large holding for one man?"

"I have been collecting them," Mr. Jacobs explained, "with a view to this amalgamation. I take it that you are perfectly serious —that you want a firm offer of my holding?"

"That's what I'm here for," Angus assured him.

The man reflected for a moment. Then he drew a sheet of paper towards him, hesitated again, and, crossing the room, studied a tape machine for several moments. Finally he sat down again, wrote for a few minutes and handed the result across the table.

"There you are," he announced. "I meant to hold a little longer, but for a big deal I'll cut my profits. I have made you an offer at slightly under the price of a quarter of an hour ago. What they're going to do on the street this evening, of course I can't tell, but you may take my word for it, prices will be higher, not lower, when markets open to-morrow."

"Until what hour is this offer good?" Angus enquired.

"Until eleven o'clock to-morrow morning. If you'd come twenty-four hours earlier, I could have offered you another fifty thousand Grateson's. I sold them early this afternoon."

Angus glanced around as he folded up the slip of paper and placed it in his pocket.

"You do a big business, Mr. Jacobs," he remarked, "considering the smallness of your premises."

The financier shrugged his shoulders.

"One needs no more in this City than a chair, an office desk, a telephone, pen, paper and ink," he observed, "and one can deal in millions. Until eleven o'clock to-morrow then, Mr. Angus...."

Angus took his leave and returned to Bellevue Mansions. Peter Bragg was deep in the perusal of a report just arrived from Strand House when he entered. He finished it to the last word. Then he turned to his partner.

"Well, what about Mr. Jacobs?" he asked. "Was he a buyer or a seller?"

"A seller," Angus replied, passing over the slip of paper. Peter Bragg studied it and beamed.

"I think," he murmured, "that by to-morrow afternoon I may be able to earn that four thousand pounds."

There was a brief silence. Peter Bragg seemed lost in deep but pleasant reflection. His partner coughed.

"Is it my fancy, old chap, or aren't you being just a bit secretive over this matter?" he complained.

Peter Bragg took off his spectacles and wiped them.

"George," he said with all solemnity, "we're on to a big thing. In its way it's the most serious affair we ever tackled. Forgive me if I go quietly. You will understand later."

Angus nodded resignedly.

"All right, old chap," he agreed. "Work it out as you think best. I'm here if I'm wanted."

On the following morning, Peter Bragg seated himself at his desk with the slightly nervous air of a man preparing to face a crisis. He left his newspapers unopened and spent some time looking through a collection of reports from Strand House carefully edited by Miss Ash. He had vouchsafed only a cursory nod to his partner.

"Anything doing this morning?" the latter ventured to enquire, after he had glanced through his own little batch of correspondence.

"The climax," was the portentous and unlooked for reply. "In a matter of five minutes I am going to confide to Sir Theodore Roscoe the name of the miscreant who helped himself to that inside information."

"The devil! " Angus exclaimed joyfully. "Do you mean to say that we're going to wangle the reward."

"I believe so. The matter presents some difficulties still, but I think that I see our way to that two thousand pounds."

"It seems too good to be true," Angus murmured, as he listened to the ringing of the bell.

Sir Theodore's manner was as brusque as ever. There was a slightly contemptuous note in his tone as he took his accustomed chair. He scarcely troubled to conceal the fact that he was losing confidence in his advisers.

"Well, Mr. Bragg," he enquired, "any news for me this morning."

"In a way, yes," was the obviously unexpected reply. "I think we have reached what will probably turn out to be the solution of our difficulties."

Sir Theodore was like a man electrified. There was a steely glitter in his eyes as he leaned a little forward, almost as much belligerency as gratification in his manner.

"Do you mean to say that you are in a position to tell me how that half sheet of paper escaped from my pocket-book, or the safe, and the information got on to the market?"

"I believe that I am."

"Get on with it then," Sir Theodore enjoined. "Cut it as short as you can."

"It isn't a short story," Peter Bragg warned him, "but I will do my best. You see," he went on, "the case you presented to us was one impossible of solution by the ordinary methods. Provided I was able to accept your statement of what happened as being correct, nothing was to be gained by cross-examining your people in Basinghall Street, or your servants in Park Lane. It was obvious that no one could have opened your safe except the person in authority. It was obvious, too, that no one could have helped themselves to your pocket-book, studied its contents at their leisure and put it back again. All the ordinary procedures would simply have meant waste of time. One had to start, therefore, at the other end of the affair."

"Which end?" Sir Theodore demanded.

"I made it my business," Peter Bragg continued, "to try to get to the bottom of the buying and selling of the shares in those three companies after the information had become whispered around. I found that whilst naturally enough the general public fell easily for the tip of the amalgamation, and bought the shares in reasonable quantities readily enough, one firm, and one firm alone, was continually and steadily selling them. That was a firm of finance agents trading under the name of Jack Jacobs."

"Jack Jacobs?" Sir Theodore repeated. "Who the devil's he?"

Peter Bragg referred to one of the reports by his side.

"Mr. Jack Jacobs appears to have been in business for about five years. You probably may remember. Sir Theodore, that he was once in your employ. His financial standing in the commercial rating books seems to be exceptionally high and his bankers speak of him with the utmost respect."

"I remember the fellow," Sir Theodore admitted—"a pretty shrewd chap, according to all reports. He must have made a fortune last year in rubber. How do you account for the fact, Mr. Bragg, that he was a large and continual seller of shares upon a rising market? Your information is interesting so far as it goes, but the chief thing I want to know is who burgled my safe and rifled my pocket-book? That's where your four thousand pounds comes in."

"I will arrive at that," Peter Bragg promised, leaning a little forward. "This amalgamation has been in your mind, I think, Sir Theodore, for some years. Mr. Jack Jacobs, too, seems to have had an idea that something of the sort might arrive. During the last eighteen months particularly he has been buying continually shares in the three companies concerned almost as they came upon the market. His holding until a short time ago was very large indeed. It was large enough to justify him in believing that if the amalgamation had come off, and the price of the shares at the time had been according to your figures, he would have made a profit of, I think, something like a hundred thousand pounds."

Sir Theodore's face had become like granite. The truculent impatience of his manner had become subdued. Nevertheless, there was something menacing in his silence.

"Now, Sir Theodore," Peter Bragg went on, "you have the name of being one of the shrewdest men alive in the world of finance and commerce, and a month or so ago you did what should have commended itself to any man having the confidence of his shareholders. Some little thing in the reports of one of the companies—I think it was Grateson's, Limited—gave you food for reflection. You disappeared from London, ostensibly upon your yacht. Instead you visited the North of England and you made a close personal investigation into the affairs of the three companies concerned. What you discovered was doubtless a surprise to you. You found heavy stocks of unsuitable raw material, heavier stocks still of manufactured articles the fashion for which had changed. You found excessive figures for good-will and large sums down for machinery which ought long ago to have been scrapped. When you came back you knew very well that the proposed amalgamation would never be carried out. In the meanwhile, however, there was Mr. Jack Jacobs with four hundred and eighty thousand pounds' worth of shares bought in anticipation of that amalgamation, and the interests of Mr. Jack Jacobs and Sir Theodore Roscoe were pretty well identical."

Afterwards both Peter Bragg and Angus were able to recall with wonder the amazing impassiveness, the entire absence of any change of expression, in the face of the man who listened. Only his underlip seemed to have protruded a little further even than usual, and the glitter in his eyes to become more ferocious.

"An informal meeting of the 'Big Three' amongst the directors of the company, Sir Theodore, was held as you have recounted. The figures were laid before them exactly as you have stated, but no mention was made of your visit to the North or of your discoveries there. You were justified in withholding them until you had relieved yourself of that four hundred and eighty thousand pounds' worth of shares, because you knew very well that notwithstanding your attitude at that meeting the amalgamation would never come to pass and that therefore the directors ran no risk of losing their money. You kept a copy of the names of the three companies and of those figures in your pocket-book, and the original you handed over to Mr. Jack Jacobs to make such use of as he thought fit. One can imagine very well how this was done—a whisper over the luncheon table, a word from a stockbroker in the ear of a rich client, a furtive ring on the telephone—all this, mind, with someone in the background who had seen the names of the three companies and the figures in your own handwriting. It doesn't take long for that sort of news to travel about the Stock Exchange, where everyone is hungry for money. The shares didn't rise anything like as fast or to the figure which might have been expected, simply because as fast as there were enquiries for them there was Mr. Jack Jacobs selling. You're clear by now, I should imagine, Sir Theodore. Your Directors' Meeting is due next week and your General Meeting a week afterwards, and to the surprise of the whole financial world you will declare yourself against the amalgamation and the directors will go with you. You will probably now pay an open visit to the headquarters of the various companies. That, of course, is only surmise."

"Finished?" Sir Theodore demanded, in an utterly toneless voice.

"Pretty well."

"I haven't much to say to you. Where did you get hold of that business about Jack Jacobs?"

"Working backwards again," Peter Bragg confided. "Jack Jacobs was the one man who was selling shares in those three companies. Obviously he knew something. We put Strand House on to Jack Jacobs and found out a few things. He left you at an hour's notice. One of your servants who is still with you remembers his call at your house at midnight and the long interview he had with you. You kept the proofs of the man's misdemeanour and the next week Jack Jacobs started business as a financial agent with plenty of capital. It's been done before, Sir Theodore, hasn't it? A very useful thing to have a dummy working in your interests."

"And I came to you," Sir Theodore confided with the utmost deliberation, "to bluff the others who thought that those figures had really been stolen, and because I thought that you semi-amateur detectives were fools and that there was no chance of your really getting anywhere near the truth. So this is what you call the modern science of investigation, eh?—the working backwards system?"

"It has always been my theory," Peter Bragg enunciated, "that one should search for motives rather than for what are known as clues."

Sir Theodore drew his cheque-book from his pocket and moved to the table. There was a hard, enquiring glitter in his eyes.

"The conduct of a high-class investigation agency, run on the most approved principles, includes, I suppose, the doctrine of professional secrecy?" he demanded, as he handed across the cheque.

"Without a doubt," Peter Bragg assented as he blotted it. "You got rid of your shares which were of doubtful value without loss to anyone except the speculating public. You made use of your directors, perhaps, but you involved them in no financial loss. Your purchase of all those shares on your own account, because you intended to bring about an amalgamation, is a matter of personal ethics with which we are not concerned."

"One more question, Mr. Bragg," Sir Theodore concluded. "You have worked this case, as you admit, by seeking for motives rather than for clues. I am known to be—I believe I am—one of the richest men in this country. Why should you believe that I should take all this trouble to save perhaps fifty or a hundred thousand pounds?"

Peter Bragg smiled.

"Sir Theodore," he replied, "it is my experience that a man's love of money does not depend in the least upon his means. Even though you may be—as I dare say you are—absolutely the richest man in England, I believe that you would work as hard and with as much satisfaction, to save a hundred thousand pounds as though that sum stood between you and ruin. That is probably why you are where you are."

Sir Theodore took up his hat.

"Bright lads!" he pronouficed, and there was a vein of reluctant and admiring good-humour under his concluding profanity: "Blast you both! "

"Pudgy, you're a marvel! " Angus declared admiringly as he watched his partner unlock the mahogany cupboard and produce a gold-foiled bottle of wine and two glasses.

"A success of this kind is certainly stimulating," Peter Bragg murmured, as he filled the glasses. "I desire now, George, a few minutes of your undivided attention."

Angus raised his glass, murmured a word of fervent congratulation, and drank.

"You have it, laddie," he declared earnestly, settling down his half-empty tumbler.

Peter Bragg fingered his tie.

"I should have added, perhaps, your serious attention," he said. "What I am about to say is not a subject for chaff."

"Never felt less like chaffing," Angus assured him. "At the present moment I wouldn't dare to take a liberty."

"I wish to speak a word to you concerning Miss Ash."

"Why not? A paragon of the firm, I consider her. If it's a question of raising her salary—although that scarcely comes within my province—I'm all for it."

Peter Bragg made no direct reply.

"My attention was first called to the young lady," he went on, "in connection with the time when she dined with you at the cafe in Soho and thereby helped you to grapple with the Lenclos tragedy. You found her on that occasion, I believe, well-mannered and modest."

"She was certainly well-mannered," Angus admitted. "The girl has breeding, I am sure. As to being modest, I have too great a regard for her to attempt any liberties."

"Precisely," Peter Bragg observed, a little coolly. "I feel the same way about the young lady myself. I don't mind telling you, George, that on several occasions lately I have dined with Miss Ash. I have even taken her to a theatre."

"Who wouldn't?" Angus rejoined. "I'd take her to-morrow, only she doesn't give me any encouragement."

"She looks upon you, I believe," his partner confided, "with a certain amount of kindliness, but she regards you as a person of frivolous tendencies. Miss Ash is not frivolous."

Angus sighed. "Misunderstood again," he murmured.

"Of course," Peter Bragg went on, a little ruefully, "it's a damned obvious thing I'm going to do, but how are you to escape the obvious nowadays, with half the world writing detective stories. The feminine interest has to come in, so there you are. Of course it's all wrong. The story-writer should take his material from the world of actual happenings and then the thing shouldn't happen at all. As a matter of fact it too often does. It's going to happen with me."

"You're going to marry Miss Ash?" Angus gasped.

"Get out another glass, George," his partner enjoined. "Ring the bell and brush your hat. We're due at the registry office in a quarter of an hour."</story>