<story title="THE AUCTIONEER'S LICENCE" date="1936">
THERE was no doubt that prosperity, arrived since the whim of an unknown relative had brought him his very handsome legacy, agreed with Mr. Phillip Rooke. He had put on at least a stone in weight, he had changed his tailor, to the immense advantage of his figure, and he had allowed his naturally cheerful disposition unlimited sway. At ten o'clock on a dreary February morning he descended from the taxicab which had brought him from his comfortable apartments in Half Moon Street, entered his office in Cumberland Street and, with cheery greetings to the members of his staff who were already assembled, passed into his private office.

"Anything in the letters this morning, Miss Penfold?" he asked of the young woman who had risen from her place before a typewriter and followed him in.

"Nothing disturbing, Mr. Rooke," she replied. "Two more sales for April or May, one of them quite a large one, I should think, and one letter marked 'private' which, of course, I have not opened. It is there, just on the right of the blotter."

Phillip Rooke glanced away from the neatly arranged pile of correspondence and looked suspiciously at the square blue envelope addressed in scrawly handwriting to: Mr. Phillip Rooke, Auctioneer and Valuer, No. 9, Cumberland Street, W.C. He turned it over and looked at the flap.

"What's that?" he asked, holding it up.

"A coronet," Miss Penfold replied.

"What's the meaning of it?"

Miss Penfold smiled tolerantly.

"Something like a crest, only more so," she explained.

"Of course, I know that," was the somewhat irritated reply. "What I mean is, who is writing me with a coronet on their notepaper—'Strictly private' on the envelope, too?"

"Probably a lady who wants you to subscribe to some charity," Miss Penfold suggested.

He contented himself with a grunt and turned to the rest of his correspondence. It was easily dealt with. He dictated replies to one or two letters which Miss Penfold took down in her usual competent fashion. Then he handed the little pile back to her. His fingers toyed still with the blue envelope. Miss Penfold, who was herself a little curious, realising that he did not intend to open it until she had left, rose to her feet and left the room.

A coronet—there was no doubt about that! A rather impressive one, too, beautifully stamped on expensive notepaper. There was a whiff of fragrance, the suggestion of a perfume altogether strange to Phillip Rooke. Somehow or other the letter suggested just that spice of romance of which his life was badly in need. He would have preferred to have carried it about with him, for a portion of the day at any rate, feeling always that he had something interesting in store. Even when his common sense prevailed, and he slit the envelope, it was with some reluctance that he drew out its contents. It was dated from an address in Brooke Street and posted on the previous evening.


DEAR MR. ROOKE,
I am a stranger to you, but I am nevertheless about to ask a favour. It is that you will grant me a brief interview to-morrow morning. In the hope that you will be so kind, I shall present myself at your office in Cumberland Street at eleven o'clock.
Sincerely yours,
OLGA PRETSINOFF

Phillip Rooke touched a button on his desk.

"Miss Penfold," he asked, as his secretary entered the room, "can you make anything of this? Do I know anything of the lady?"

He handed her the letter. Miss Penfold read it through and frowned slightly as she returned it.

"No," she replied, "you have no business acquaintance of that name, at any rate."

Mr. Phillip Rooke, for whom the day had started so cheerfully and well, felt himself suddenly irritable.

"Then what the devil does she want to see me for?" he demanded. "What is that 'P.I.A.' in brackets by the side of her name?"

"That means that she is a princess—the Princess Olga Pretsinoff," Miss Penfold confided.

Mr. Rooke positively scowled.

"What could I have to do with a princess?" he scoffed. "You had better see her for me, Miss Penfold."

"I don't think," the latter answered dryly, "that that would suit the lady's purpose."

Phillip Rooke looked at the clock and grunted.

"Oh, all right," he muttered, "show her in when she comes."

So for twenty minutes Phillip Rooke was left alone with the hastily scrawled note at his elbow. It was a message which brought to him the faint incessant perfume of musk-rose, a queer flavour of romance—a letter in a blue envelope . . .

* * * * *

It was several seconds after her announcement and entrance that Phillip Rooke recovered himself sufficiently to indicate with an hospitable gesture, and a muttered word of invitation to his visitor, a chair adjacent to his desk. His impression of princesses had been acquired from the few Society novels he had read and the Sunday newspapers. He had expected something flamboyant, lurid and dangerous. He saw only a very quietly dressed girl, very pale, with beautiful rather appealing eyes of no particular colour. Her walk was unlike anything he had ever seen, her faint, sad smile as she sank into her chair seemed to be making a first-aid appeal to his charitable sense, and her voice, notwithstanding its foreign accent, seemed to him subtly pathetic.

"You are surprised that I come to see you yes?"

"Well, I don't remember ever having made your acquaintance, Princess," he replied guardedly.

"We have never met before," the young woman acknowledged. "Nevertheless, Mr. Rooke, you are in a position to do me a great favour."

Mr. Rooke coughed, and listened. It seemed to him to be safest.

"You have been one of those very much favoured by fortune," she continued. "I read about you in the newspapers. You are one of the Rooke legatees. You were a poor man, and then an unknown relative leaves you a fortune. You become —is it a good word?—opulent."

"Well?" Phillip Rooke queried in wholly noncommittal fashion.

"I have been as unfortunate as you have been fortunate," the Princess continued. "You would not believe it, because I am wearing a Worth gown and a hat from Ozanne. Mr. Rooke, I am in despair."

"Taking that for granted," Phillip Rooke remarked with what he considered courageous brutality, "how am I interested?"

She looked steadily across at him and for the first time he made up his mind as to the colour of her eyes. They were a deep, rich, sea-green hazel. They went strangely with her complexion—she might have been a mermaid sitting in his chair of consultation. His eyes travelled down to her bottines and he was reassured. Incidentally it occurred to him that her pearl-grey stockings were exactly the right shade to blend with her skirt.

"I come to you," she said quietly, "because circumstances have directed it. I was glad, because I realised that a man of good heart, such as you must be, could not fail to remember, when I made my request, that chance had brought him a great stroke of fortune. You see," she went on, as though appreciating his puzzled gaze, "it was a perfect stranger who befriended you. Therefore, I say, why should you not befriend another perfect stranger?"

"Well, it's queer reasoning," Mr. Rooke observed. "What is it you want— money?"

From the first he had disliked his role of "man-of-the-world" cynicism. Now he hated it and himself. She answered him so quietly and yet he thought with apparent pain.

"I chose you, Mr. Rooke," she explained, "not only because you have enjoyed an unexpected stroke of fortune, but also because you have charge of a small sale within the next few days at which there are to be disposed of the letters and the scraps of music left by Louis Mambré, the mad Montmartre fiddler, as he was called up to the day of his death."

"I have a small sale of the effects of a man called Mambré on Thursday," Phillip Rooke confessed "I don't see how that can possibly affect you."

"How should you?" she murmured. "I am not to imagine, Mr. Rooke, that you have been blessed with the gift of inspiration. You could not possibly know. I do not wish to interfere with your disposal of poor Louis's effects. I have nothing to say about his property—his violin which was accounted priceless, or even any letters which he may have kept from the women who worshipped him— but there is one thing he left behind which I must have. I have come to you to help me."

"Look here," Phillip Rooke observed suspiciously, "I have been up against this sort of thing before. A very difficult position I found myself in. Is there another box amongst Mambré's effects with a necklace of emeralds or anything of that sort? If so, I must tell you frankly, Princess, that it is going to be sold for what it is worth. The man left scarcely enough to pay for his funeral expenses and I am selling the few oddments in his rooms simply to oblige the lawyer."

"It is not a box, nor is it jewels which I ask," she told him. "It is just a fragment of music."

"I don't understand."

"Well, I will explain. One of the lots consists of unpublished sheets and scores of music he composed and never finished. Some of them have little merit —the whole lot might go probably for a few shillings. But there is one fragment—it is a pencilled score, it is not even properly annotated. It was to have formed the principal theme of a modern opera, but he died. I want that scrap of music."

"Why?" he asked bluntly.

"Because it was written," she confided, "when he was my lover. It was written when we spent what was almost the working man and woman's Sunday in a café on the banks of the Seine not a dozen miles from Paris. It was a noisy, blatant place, but night came and a soft rain, and people went away and we were left alone in an arbour, and there was just the slanting rain and the patter on the river, a faint row of lights and the sighing of the water as it passed almost at our feet. The lamp had burned out; we had borrowed a candle; he sat there humming to himself and sometimes he took up the violin—he was never parted from it—and he struck a chord or two. Well, there it was. A scrap of music, and he wrote my name upon it and he carried it back to Paris. I was ill at the time, Mr. Rooke, and I was taken worse on the next day. They sent me to hospital, and when I recovered he had gone to London. Then I read of his death in the paper. I come here just to claim what belongs to me."

Mr. Rooke was troubled. His affected cynicism had gone. A kindly common sense had taken its place.

"But, Princess," he expostulated, "the settlement of his affairs has nothing to do with me. I have to sell what is handed over to me."

"I know," she admitted. "I should not have come to you, but I have been to the others in vain. They would not listen to me. The odd lots of music must be sold, the lawyer told me, according to instructions. A greedy widow, long since forgotten, living in Bayonne, has willed it thus."

Phillip Rooke considered the matter. During the brief interval of silence his eyes lingered not coldly but appraisingly upon his visitor. He became conscious that his attitude of mind towards her was slowly changing. He forgot that she was a princess. The glamour of her name and the charm of her presence faded into the background. She was a waif of humanity, passionately anxious to cling to this scrap of music which had been written for her by her lover on an unforgettable night. Phillip Rooke was no longer a licensed seller of unconsidered trifles, always ready to exchange a jest with his little gathering of patrons. He was a simple, kindly man, and he made up his mind that this pale-faced, hollow-eyed woman should have her scrap of music.

"It seems to me," he reflected, "that it would have been simpler, since you set so much store by those two or three bars, Princess, if you had kept them instead of letting him take them away."

"I wish that I had done so," she sighed. "Louis took them because he wanted the prelude. The bars he had written were to be the soul of his opera. He was terribly afraid that even a single phrase might slip from his memory and that he might never recapture it. He took it away. It was to be for such a short time. And then he fell ill."

Mr. Rooke nodded.

"Well," he suggested, "the simplest way would be for you to buy the whole bag of tricks. I don't suppose there is a great deal of music, and I don't suppose there would be much bidding."

"I would pay for the portfolio every penny I had in the world," she said earnestly, "but that is very little. What I am afraid of is that someone will get to know that there is a treasure in that portfolio and will bid against me. They would offer more money than I possess and then my melody, his last gift to me, would be gone forever."

"I will help you out there," Mr. Rooke said. "I have had to sell unfinished pictures and unfinished novels and unfinished scores of music in my time. They don't fetch much, you know, Princess. How much money can you afford to pay?"

"I have only ten pounds," she confided.

"I should think you could probably buy the lot for ten shillings," he told her, "but I will go up to one hundred pounds for you if it is necessary. What about that?"

"It is very generous," she admitted, and there was gratitude shining out of those strange eyes of hers and the rigidity of her face had lessened, yet there was also fear there. "It is very generous of you, Mr. Rooke," she repeated, "but I must tell you something. When Louis was in the hospital he was for days in a delirium. There were times when he used to hum or croon strange pieces of music, and I think he must have hummed my melody."

"Why do you think so?"

"The nurse wrote me that his agent used to listen to him every now and then entranced. Once he brought two other friends with him to listen. One was a Jew named Usher who had already bought some of Louis's songs. The nurse told me that she heard them whispering together. The man Usher was trembling with excitement. 'Where did he get that refrain from?' Usher demanded. 'It is to be the theme of an opera,' the agent told him. 'I will buy it,' Usher declared. 'I will pay him his own price.' The nurse told me more. She said that when Louis hummed this one tune people used to stop in the corridor outside to listen; the other patients within hearing, however ill they were, seemed to forget everything. Even the doctors paused and asked afterwards who he was. No one who ever heard it seemed to be able to recapture it, and yet no one who ever heard it forgot it. This man Usher is very rich. He is a common man, but he knows about music. I am afraid that he will come to the sale."

"That certainly complicates matters," Rooke meditated. "One moment, Princess."

He rang his bell. Miss Penfold came demurely in. It was obvious that the length of the interview had incited her disapproval.

"Miss Penfold," her employer asked her, "we have a small sale in a few days —the effects of a Louis Mambré, who died in hospital. The things from his lodgings were sent here by the lawyer."

"The sale is Thursday, Mr. Rooke," she told him.

"And when is view day?"

"The day before—Wednesday. We had a letter from Ushers, the music publishers, asking if they could inspect the odd scores of music before that date. The letter is on your desk, waiting for attention."

"It can wait," Phillip Rooke replied. "That will do, Miss Penfold."

The secretary took her leave. The Princess's face seemed whiter than ever. Her lips were trembling.

"You see," she said as soon as the door was closed, "this man Usher has heard the melody. He will be here to try and buy the manuscript."

"No need to worry yet, Princess," Rooke assured her cheerfully; "come right along with me this way."

He rose to his feet, opened another door, led the way into a large warehouse and called to a porter.

"Where, William," he asked, "are the effects of Louis Mambré, for sale on Thursday?"

"On the second floor, sir," the man replied. "A miserable lot of stuff. Mr. Harrison thought we had better put them in at the end of Thursday's sale."

"Come and show them to us," his employer directed.

They mounted the stairs. They were led towards a motley heap of what was frankly little better than rubbish lying in a remote corner of the warehouse. There were a few chairs, a miserable collection of old clothes and ragged books, and a portfolio of music tied up with string. The Princess stooped down and took up from the floor a cheap photograph frame. She held it out towards her companion.

"You see that I tell the truth," she said. "That is my picture. He carried it everywhere."

Phillip Rooke took it into his hand. There was no mistaking its identity, although between the picture of the happy child who smiled at him from behind the cracked glass and the woman who held the frame dumbly towards him there was a bridge of tragedy.

"I never doubted your word, Princess," Rooke assured her quietly. "William," he said to the man, "take that portfolio to the table and unfasten the cords."

He felt her fingers for a moment as she grasped at his hands for support. They were icily cold. Her eyes, however, still remained empty of tears. The moment the cords were undone she fell upon the shabby portfolio. It was filled with a great pile of scraps of manuscript music, here and there written on prepared sheets, here and there on paper across which an unsteady hand had drawn the bars, fashioned grotesque emblems of treble and bass, and covered pages with what seemed to Phillip Rooke a chaos of fantastically-shaped notes. The Princess had lost her calm. She was leaning over the table, her fingers tearing at the loose sheets. One by one they were rejected with scarcely a glance, then she paused and a low cry, a cry that was like a sob, broke from her lips. With both hands she was gripping a single crumpled page.

"Is that the score?" Phillip Rooke asked.

She made no reply. She had passed into a different world. Her head went slowly back, her lips opened, music came floating out from her—strangely delivered music, sometimes a French word, sometimes a low croon, but there was melody, strange, sad, almost biting melody, sorrows that clawed their way into the heart and made the eyes hot with tears, and then some quality of resignation, some apprehension of coming relief, something that brought tranquillity; gentle music which seemed to sponge out misery and bring back colour and life and light-heartedness to the world. One felt the sun burning its way through the storm clouds. The, reassuring laughter, the twin fairies gaiety and hope, and then, once more, strangely mingled this time with the transformed melody, there came back reminiscent, notes of that first air, exquisitely plaintive, aching with melody.

Close by William, the warehouseman, was standing with mouth open, dumb-stricken. He found himself trying to think of the days when he was a child in the fields sprinkled with daisies and buttercups, himself lying in the quaker grass listening to the passing of the river, smelling the new-mown hay. Phillip Rooke felt the rush of a new promise into life. Old ambitions reshaped themselves, old desires seemed reborn. All the clumsiness and day-by-day squalor of life had fallen away. Everything in the world was pointing upwards. He caught hold of that stray sheet, rolled it up and placed it in her hands.

"I am to take this?" she asked, a sudden flame is her eyes. "And if there is trouble?"

"My shoulders from now an are the broadest is the world."

* * * * *

At ten o'clock on the following morning a portly and well-attired gentleman, accompanied by a young woman carrying a violin-case and a young man whose long hair, soft hat and flowing cravat flamboyantly proclaimed his profession, presented themselves at the sale-rooms of Mr. Phillip Rooke and asked to be conducted to where the effects of the late Louis Mambré were to be found. They were conducted to the second floor, where they fell rabidly upon that worn portfolio and commenced their all-day search. At four o'clock Miss Penfold made her way to her employer's sanctum.

"A Mr. Usher insists upon seeing you, sir," she announced. "He has been here since ten o'clock this morning poking about in the sale-rooms."

"Dear me," Mr. Rooke replied with a surprise which was more apparent than real. "Whatever did he find to interest him all this time?"

Miss Penfold made no comment. She profoundly disapproved of her employer's present attitude, but nothing could break through her loyalty. She ushered in the visitor, who was neither so sleek nor so eager nor so neat as when he had presented himself on the premises at a few minutes past ten. Perhaps the fact that his lunch had only consisted of a couple of sandwiches and a bottle of beer brought in from a neighbouring public-house accounted to some extent for his disturbed state.

"Mr. Usher?" the auctioneer enquired genially.

"That is my name, sir," was the somewhat curt reply. "I have a serious matter to discuss with you."

"Take a seat," the other invited.

Mr. Usher accepted the invitation. Even in his confessed state of fatigue and agitation he did not forget to find a safe resting-place for his once carefully brushed hat. He leaned forward towards the auctioneer.

"Mr. Rooke," he said. "To-morrow you are advertising for sale the effects of a man named Louis Mambré."

"Such effects as they are," was the smiling acknowledgment. "From what I have seen of them they might have been sent to a second-hand junk shop."

"That shows you don't know what you are talking about," Mr. Usher snapped. "Mambré died a pauper, to all appearances, but he was a genius, sir—that man was a genius. If he had lived to be our age, he would have been one of the greatest musicians in the world."

"What kept him back?" Phillip Rooke enquired.

Mr. Usher frowned. In a way that was a most unfortunate question.

"Poverty," he replied. "He never quite made a hit, and so however generously people felt towards him it was impossible for them to pay him very much for his productions."

"Oh, that was why he died in poverty, was it?"

"Naturally. To-morrow you are going to dispose of a lot of unfinished stuff that he wrote at various times. I don't suppose they will fetch a ten-pound note, but I have something serious to say to you. There was one score which should have brought him in real money, and that score is missing."

"Where do I come in?" Mr. Rooke asked.

"Now I will tell you," his visitor said, drawing his chair a little nearer to the table and extending his podgy hands. "Louis Mambré's agent visited him in hospital, a very kindly action, and from what he told me, I too went to see the poor fellow."

"The action of a true Samaritan," Phillip Rooke declared enthusiastically.

"He was in delirium most of the time," Mr. Usher went on, unheeding, "always singing and humming to himself, and in the midst of it all—I know, because there is nothing about the trade side of music that can get by me— that man, Mr. Rooke, hummed or crooned or sang, whichever you like, not more than a dozen bars perhaps of the most marvellous melody man ever placed upon a score. I tell you it was worth a fortune. It was glorious. It got you right in the place music tries to get you. If it had been played once in a London theatre, there isn't an errand-boy in the streets, not a clerk upon a bus, who wouldn't have been whistling it as he went upon his way. What do you think of that, Mr. Rooke?"

"I call it damned interesting," Phillip Rooke confessed.

"I got his agent on one side," Usher went on, "and I showed him a few bank-notes I generally carry round with me. 'Attwood,' I said, 'your job is not to leave this hospital until Louis recovers. Get an illness yourself—anything you like—I don't care; I'll pay your expenses. Your job is not to leave Louis until you have got the rest of that music out of him. There is a fortune for the three of us there, and I will do the square thing by everybody.'"

"Very generous of you," Mr. Rooke remarked.

"Attwood did his job. I am not blaming him," Usher went on, moistening his red lips, "but in two days Louis was dead. All that Attwood could get out of him in his last moments was that he had written that music in Paris whilst he was in the company of some woman or other, and that the score was in his portfolio at his lodgings. He had brought it over to play to me when he was taken ill."

"Well, your agent seems to have done his job by finding that out," Mr. Rooke observed.

"Yes, but this is where you come in, sir," Usher proceeded, with an unpleasant note in his voice. "We have been all the morning, me with a violinist and a technical musician, going through that portfolio of Louis's and the score isn't there."

"What rotten luck," Mr. Rooke said sympathetically.

"Rotten fiddlesticks!" the other exclaimed. "The score has been stolen."

"Dear me."

"Not only that, but we have found out that the young woman he was with the night he wrote it a highfalutin young person, but a bit of a musician herself— is in London at the present moment. She has nabbed it. How did she manage that, Mr. Rooke?"

"How on earth should I know?" the auctioneer asked.

"But do you know? That is what we are here to find out," Mr. Usher declared truculently. "Ten o'clock this morning was advertised as the earliest time the goods could have been inspected. I have had it out with the lawyer. There was a seal on the door of Louis's rooms which was broken by the lawyer's own messenger. The things were brought here on a small trolley in charge of the clerk and deposited in your upstairs room. Now, what have you got to say, Mr. Rooke?"

"What is there to say," was the gravely puzzled rejoinder. "Ten o'clock was the earliest hour, and you were the first visitor."

"I am not so sure of that," Mr. Usher exclaimed belligerently. "I insist upon seeing the foreman who is in charge of that room."

Mr. Rooke rang the bell and gave a message. William, in his green apron and with tousled hair, made his appearance. He was still in a detached state, with a sort of feeling inside him that he wanted to get away into the country and smell the honeysuckle and hay, and the sweetness of the meadows, and he had taken a particular dislike to Mr. Usher.

"William," his employer told him, "this gentleman is very interested in the scraps of manuscript which I understand were in a portfolio with the Louis Mambre effects."

"I should say he were interested," William replied roughly. "He's been poking about amongst them since opening time."

"A piece of music which he expected to find there is missing," Mr. Rooke confided. "Has anyone else inspected that portfolio, William?"

"Not a soul ain't been near it," was the emphatic rejoinder.

"You mean to say that no one has been in at any other time to ask to inspect the portfolio?" Mr. Usher enquired, a little dashed.

"Not a soul ain't been near the place," William repeated. "I know, because I come at opening time; I bring my breakfast and dinner with me, and I lock up when I go. You are the first and only one who has looked through them scrawls, and if the gentleman wouldn't mind me saying so," William continued, turning to his employer, "we had a horrid morning of it, what with the girl with the fiddle playing scraps which sounded like the moaning of a cat, and the gentleman with the long hair hooting things. If them were the sort of noises they came after, it seems to me a good thing they didn't find them."

Mr. Rooke waved him away.

"Well, there you are, Mr. Usher," he said. "Anything else I can do for you?"

There was nothing else which Mr. Rooke could do for Mr. Usher. The latter took his surly departure. Mr. Phillip Rooke went out and had a drink.

* * * * *

It was one of the regular dinner gatherings of the Rooke legatees, and everyone was very merry and gay. Everyone, too, was wrapped in sympathetic admiration of the beautiful, sad little stranger whom Phillip Rooke, their chairman for the evening, had introduced to the gathering. It was after the third round of the champagne that Phillip Rooke, who was looking extremely happy but somewhat subdued, tapped lightly on the tablecloth with his forefinger, and leaned over to address his fellow members of this unique club.

"My friends," he said. "Mrs. John, Miss Ann, Mr. Colin, and Mr. Percy, since we were brought together by that wonderful stroke of fortune which entitled us to be described as the Rooke legatees, one or two of us have been favoured in our day-by-day life with adventures of various sorts. To-night I am in the happy position of being able to tell you that I too have met adventure such as I never dreamed of. My guest of this evening is going to be sweet enough to tell you, in a few words, the somewhat, curious happening which enabled me to render her some slight service."

The Princess smiled pleasantly, but a little sadly, upon them all. The wine of which she had drunk sparingly had brought no colour to her cheeks. Her eyes remained that negative shade of hazel, yet the lines of her face were becoming, hour by hour, more relaxed. Mr. Phillip Rooke had already christened her the Murillo Madonna.

"My host this evening," she said, "has done me such a great service that it is a joy to me to confide in you others, his friends, how glad he has made me. It is a simple story and you need to give me your attention for only five minutes."

In less than five minutes the story was told, and very well told. Colin alone assumed an air of mock severity.

"In cold blood, my cousin Phillip," he said, "you told that admirable Mr. Usher a deliberate—a real whopper!"

"A deliberate falsehood," Mr. Phillip Rooke confessed. "Not only that, but I found my man William and my whole staff acting and trying to tell the same whopper."

"And the melody?" Ann, the sentimentalist, asked softly.

"Someday, it is my earnest prayer," the Princess said, "that you will all hear it. Thanks to Mr. Phillip I possess the one exquisite air which goes through the whole opera and in the portfolio which he generously bought for me I have found some of the finger-posts. You do not know, perhaps, that I have a position in a small orchestra and play four times a week at private houses. I keep myself now and work all the time. Someday I shall finish the opera. You will all come and hear it—yes?"

There was not the least doubt about the willingness of everybody, and when the party broke up, under the portico of her temporary home, she laid her hands upon Phillip's shoulders and lightly and sweetly she kissed him upon the cheeks.

"When that time of success comes, you will forget?" he asked fervently.

"I shall remember always and I shall listen to whatever you have to ask," she promised.</story>