<story title="The Fêted Lady" date="1927">
"I LIKE your car, Peter," the Honourable George Angus admitted, with that slight note of condescension in his tone which pertains to the owner of a Rolls-Royce, "but I am not sure that I altogether approve of your method of driving it."

"What's wrong with that?" Peter Bragg demanded, as he came slowly to a standstill at the rear of a long line of traffic in Piccadilly Circus.

"Lack of dash, laddie," Angus pointed out. "Just that touch of genius which enables a man to slip along, as it were, to make a yard or two on the rest of the traffic. One little spurt and you'd have been across the Circus here without getting blocked."

"In which case," Peter Bragg remarked, gazing downwards, "you would not have become the recipient of a billet-doux from the young lady.in the limousine there."

Angus stared at the little roll of paper, tied, as it appeared, with a black silk shoe string, which lay at his feet. He picked it up just as the policeman in front gave the signal of release, and the double row of cars began to move. He caught only a glimpse of a girl's face looking through the window of a limousine car in the next line, whose eyes seemed to meet his as though with some message. Then Peter Bragg, changing from first to second, lost his speeds, dropped behind and the car shot away up Shaftesbury Avenue.

"I saw her writing it inside," Peter Bragg confided. "She just hung her hand out and dropped it at your feet during that first block."

Angus unrolled the scrap of paper. There were only half a dozen lines, written in pencil and apparently in great haste:—

"I have just tried to call on Mr. Bragg or his partner, at the Bellevue, but I am being watched and I was obliged to give it up. Please come at three o'clock to number 11, Cardenall Mansions."
"Like to see it?" Angus asked.

Peter Bragg shook his head. He had all he could do—perhaps a little more—in guiding his car through the traffic.

"Wait till we get to Ciro's, old chap," he begged. "Do remember that this is the first time I've driven in London alone."

Angus looked meditatively at a great lorry, contact with which they had escaped by a few inches.

"You may thank Providence, my dear Peter," he remarked, "that it isn't your last. Keep her throttled down, mind, and make a wide sweep when you turn into Leicester Square. I'll put my right hand out.... Not so bad. Now be careful how you cross into Orange Street. Let the other traffic pass first.... Good! Gad, we're saved after all, and there's your Johnny waiting. Peter, we'll have a double cocktail in thankfulness for our escape."

"Escape from what?" his companion asked coldly.

"From the accidents involved by other people's unskilful driving," Angus replied, as he led the way down the stairs into the bar.

There was no difficulty about the double cocktails or their consumption. Angus lit a cigarette.

"My nerves now," he announced, "are restored. Read this, Peter, and dare to tell me that the days of romance are passed."

Peter Bragg read the pencilled lines carefully.

"Nothing personal about this," he remarked. "I wonder what the dickens the girl means when she says that she's being watched? There was a man seated by the chauffeur in that limousine who looked devilish like one of my own scouts."

"That is for us to discover," Angus replied. "One of us has to be at number eleven flat, Cardenall Mansions, this afternoon at three o'clock. I vote we toss."

"You can spare yourself the trouble," the other declared. "My place is in the office. Assignations of this sort are for you to deal with."

Angus accepted his partner's decision without demur. His momentary impression of the young woman had been favourable.

"And now," he suggested, "let's lunch."

They found a corner table in the grill-room and proceeded to study the menu.

"Not often we feed together, old dear," Angus remarked. "I votes we do ourselves well."

"It appears to me that you generally do," his companion replied. "My own tastes are more simple. In any case here comes something which should be more interesting to you than food."

Angus glanced across the room at two new arrivals who were being shown to an opposite table. Notwithstanding an impulse of distinct curiosity he succeeded in glancing indifferently enough at the demure-looking young woman who was taking her place by the side of a very immaculately turned out and monocled young man.

"If I am not mistaken," Peter Bragg observed, "that was the young woman who was alone in the limousine in Piccadilly Circus, and who threw the note into the car."

"Amazing how you notice things," Angus admitted. "That, without doubt, is the heroine of my forthcoming adventure. The young man, however, seems to have fallen from the blue skies. He certainly wasn't in the car."

"As a matter of fact," Peter Bragg confided, "he has strolled across from Whitehall. You ought to know him. Isn't he one of your polo and golf-playing crowd?"

"More than ever you amaze me, Peter," Angus confessed. "That's young Sholto Dennis from the Home Office. Terrible ass at polo, but he's got his golf handicap down to two."

"Don't overdo your devotion to your lunch," Peter Bragg advised. "The young man seems disturbed and he has made more than one attempt to catch your eye."

Angus looked up and exchanged a typically British greeting with his acquaintance. He took the opportunity to let his eyes linger for a moment upon his companion.

"Wonder who she is?" he reflected. "Sholto's rather a musical comedy-ish sort of young man and she doesn't seem that type. A bit too intense, eh?"

"I find her a young woman not without attraction," his companion declared. "She is probably engaged in some sort of intellectual work. I should certainly not connect her with the stage."

"I'll tell you all about her in an hour or two's time," Angus promised. . . .

As a matter of fact, however, he was doomed to disappointment. Just after the two men had ordered their coffee, the young woman and her companion arose. They passed out of the room, the girl without a glance in their direction, the young man with a perfunctory nod.

Five minutes later a blue-liveried pageboy made his appearance in the room, discovered Angus and slipped a note into his hand.

"The attendant in the ladies' room gave me this for you, sir," he announced.

Angus unfolded the scrap of paper. There was a single line scrawled in the same handwriting:—

"Please don't come. Hopeless."


Angus remunerated the page-boy and turned to his partner with a little gesture of disappointment.

"So that's that! " he grumbled. "An adventure finished before it's begun."

Peter Bragg took off his glasses and wiped them carefully.

"It may be only postponed," he said. "To atone for your disappointment, George, I will relax so far from my usual midday abstinence as to suggest a 'Fin.' "

"Good lad!" Angus assented with enthusiasm. "We'll spring to the Napoleon."

Angus had intended availing himself of a temporary slackness in the affairs of Peter Bragg & Co. to indulge in a game of golf that afternoon, but curiosity induced him to remain in the office. No further word came, however, from the young lady of the limousine. He was preparing to leave about five o'clock when a card was brought in. Peter Bragg studied it and shook his head.

"No luck for you, George," he announced. "An American gentleman. Well-known name, but I can't place him. Mr. Wheeler B. Piatt."

"Sounds like money," Angus observed.

"Show the gentleman in," Peter Bragg directed.

Mr. Wheeler B. Piatt certainly did look like money. He exuded opulence in the quiet, restrained way of the modern American millionaire. His clothes were carefully chosen, he wore little jewellery, his complexion bespoke the dyspeptic, but his tone and manner were crisp and business-like. He accepted a chair and glanced questioningly towards Angus.

"My partner," Peter Bragg explained.

His visitor nodded.

"That's all right," he said. "I don't care about too many people around in a conference of this sort, but of course a partner's different. I understand, Mr. Bragg, that you're supposed to have the smartest crowd of professional detectives in this country."

"My men have been chosen entirely for their ability, irrespective of any financial considerations," was the studied reply. "If I hear of a really good man I take him whether he is at Scotland Yard or at a rival establishment. What might your business be?"

"Simple enough," the other replied. "On the fourteenth of last month," he went on, producing a pocket-book, "at four o'clock in the afternoon, the secretary of a Cabinet Minister, engaged in transcribing some notes in the committee-room of her chief in your House of Commons, fainted. It was obvious that she would not be able to complete her task, and the young man in charge of the proceedings, knowing that the notes must be finished, sent in to the House for one of the staff of young women who are always there for the convenience of members. This young woman completed the transcription of the notes in question and duly took her leave. I wish to know her name and address."

Peter Bragg considered the matter for a moment.

"Are you inclined to confide in me your reason for desiring this information?" he enquired.

"I certainly am not," was the prompt reply. "Why should you ask for such a thing. I simply require service—ordinary detective service—such as I have described. My reasons for requiring it are my business, not yours."

"In an ordinary way I agree with you, of course," Peter Bragg admitted. "You must excuse the question. We do not usually limit the sphere of our operations. On the other hand, we do not very much care for commissions connected directly or indirectly with public affairs when our client is not of British nationality."

"You make me tired." Mr. Wheeler B. Piatt said mournfully. "What does it matter to you whether I am of British nationality or not? I'm not trying to strike an underhand blow at your constitution. As a matter of fact, although I'm an American, I'm a resident over here, my business is mostly over here, and I'm as British as many of you Britishers. All I want is the name and address of a young woman. That sort of work isn't in my line, but I could find it out for myself if I wasn't particularly anxious not to appear in the affair."

"Supposing I should decide to procure you the information you desire," Peter Bragg asked, "would that conclude our business?"

"Possibly not," the American admitted. "On the other hand you could, at any time, refuse to proceed any further with the matter if you wished."

"Quite true. If you will give me a telephone number I will let you know when to call and receive the information you desire. It will probably be to-morrow."

Mr. Piatt laid a card upon the table. It bore only a private address in Park Lane.

"Between eight and eleven in the morning," he said, "or from four o'clock onwards in the afternoon. Just tell me that you're ready and I'll step round."

Peter Bragg touched the bell; Mr. Wheeler B. Piatt took his leave. For some moments afterwards there was silence between the two partners. Peter Bragg was making idle sketches on the back of the card; Angus, after a few moments' reflection, echoed his unspoken thought.

"She might very well have been a typist," he remarked.

At twelve o'clock on the following morning, Mr. Piatt, in response to a telephone message, presented himself at the Bellevue. Peter Bragg handed him a slip of paper.

"The young lady's name," he announced, "is Miss Ada Malcolm. She is employed by the Holbroke Typewriting and Secretarial Agency and until the day after the date you mentioned she was to be found every afternoon at the House of Commons. Her address is 11, Cardenall Mansions."

"Slick work," Mr. Piatt confessed, producing his pocket-book.

"Twenty guineas," Peter Bragg murmured.

"Steep, but worth it," was the other's laconic criticism, as he counted out the notes.

"And now does that conclude our business, Mr. Piatt?"

"For the present, yes. I'll take a hand in the game myself now I know where to find the young lady."

"I wish you success," Peter Bragg said gravely.

"If I run up against a snag, I shall be round again."

"Whether we are able to accept your further commission or not," Peter Bragg declared guardedly, "we shall be pleased to receive your visit..."

"He'll be back again in a day or two," he mused, after his visitor had taken his leave. "What do you suppose it is he wants?"

"No idea," Peter Bragg confessed. "All that we've succeeded in doing up to the present is in establishing some sort of a connection between your young lady of the limousine and the typist who was called in to do some unexpected work in a committee-room of the House of Commons one afternoon about three weeks ago. Since then the typist in question hasn't been back to her job and the principal of the Agency declares that she's taking a short holiday. That short holiday appears to consist of doing the theatres and restaurants of London pretty thoroughly with your young friend, Mr. Sholto Dennis. Obvious enough on the face of it," he concluded, "except that she doesn't seem that sort."

"She's not bad-looking," Angus reflected. "I like that little tilt to her nose, and she has a delightful mouth. She's one of the few girls in the world who'd be improved by just a touch of cosmetics."

"Perhaps some day you may have the chance to tell her so."

The telephone rang a few minutes later. Peter Bragg who answered the call turned to his partner.

"Lady's voice, in a desperate hurry," he announced—"wants you."

Angus hastened to take the receiver into his own hand.

"Oh, why couldn't you come to the 'phone before," a distressed voice almost whispered. "There's no time to talk now. Please lunch at Ciro's again to-day."

"I'll be there," Angus replied into a dead void.

"The young woman seems to be sticking at you," Peter Bragg observed, as his partner hung up the receiver.

"She doesn't seem to be getting much forwarder with it. Shall you come along to lunch?"

Peter Bragg shook his head.

"I think I'll stroll round to Strand House and talk to Hopkins," he decided. " I'm not very keen on touching anything that in any way concerns Government business, but I should like to know what was doing in what's-his-name's committee-room that afternoon."

"I'm getting a bit intrigued myself," Angus admitted. " We'll compare notes later on. . . ."

Angus's luncheon was not an inspiring one. Satisfied that the young lady of the limousine was not in the grill-room on his arrival, he sat down at the bar outside to have a cocktail. Presently the two people in whom he was interested entered, the young lady in a new and charming costume of petunia-coloured cloth with a slight edging of fur and a hat to match. Her companion seemed even more devoted than yesterday and almost scowled as he caught what appeared to be a look of admiration in Angus's face. The two had been on the point of sitting down to have a cocktail, but Dennis, apparently changing his mind, led the way on to the grill-room. The girl half turned her head. There was the slightest possible elevation of her eyebrows as she joined her escort.

"If I can't get the better of an ass like Sholto," Angus murmured to himself, as he followed them into the room a short time later, "I deserve to be kicked."

Nevertheless no fortune came his way that morning. The girl's eyes strayed once or twice towards his table, but they conveyed no intelligible message. Angus lingered over his meal until their departure and waited again for another quarter of an hour, but this time not even a note came. He made his way back to the office a little disconsolately, only to find that his partner had met with similar ill-success.

"Hopkins is sending a man down to the House," the latter confided, "but he is, like me, not very keen. The Home Services have their own people about, of course, and they'll spot our chap in a moment. They'd be down on him like a ton of bricks if he tried to open up any business."

"We needn't rush matters," Angus declared. "That girl's clever enough. I'll probably bring you the whole story in a day or two."

Peter Bragg coughed.

"The confidence of the young—" he began.

Then the telephone bell rang with an enquiry for Angus. It was the same hurried, familiar voice.

"I want to talk to you, Mr. Angus," it said. " I don't know where we're going before, but we shall be at the Embassy for supper. You know Mr. Dennis. Why don't you come and speak to him?"

"I will," Angus promised, "but here we are—why can't you tell me what it is you want."

"I daren't, over the telephone. Good-bye."

Again a blank.

"To-night," Angus announced, as he put down the receiver, "I shall be a leech. Sholto can be as rude as he likes. He's a regular young cub, anyway. I'm going to have a word or two with that girl, whatever happens."

"It's up to you," was Peter Bragg's laconic comment.

That night for the first time the fates were on Angus's side. Although he reached the Embassy fairly early the place was packed. He stood In the doorway as though looking for friends, and was promptly rewarded. The girl of the limousine, with Sholto Dennis, was seated at a corner table against the wall. Angus strolled in their direction.

"Hullo, Sholto!" he exclaimed, pausing for a moment. "What a mob! "

"Beastly, isn't it?"

"Going on to Lady Arbuthnot's afterwards?"

"I think not. Probably stick it out here."

Angus glanced round the room. A seething mass of newcomers were streaming through the doorway.

"Should you think it awful cheek if I asked if I might sit down for a moment whilst they fixed me up a table?" he asked.

"Certainly not—for a moment," Dennis replied coldly. "We're expecting some friends directly. Mr. Angus—Miss Malcolm."

Angus smiled as he drew up a chair.

"Seen you at Ciro's once or twice lately, haven't I?" he enquired. She nodded.

"Isn't it a fascinating place for lunch?" she exclaimed. "I've only been there twice, but I love it."

Angus had a sudden inspiration. He remembered that Sholto Dennis did not dance.

"Why aren't you two dancing?" he asked.

"Miss Malcolm isn't very keen, and I don't care about it," Dennis answered quickly. "Besides, there's such a crush."

"Couldn't we have just one turn," Angus begged. " You don't mind, Sholto? I'll bring Miss Malcolm back quite safely."

"I don't think Miss Malcolm really cares about it," Dennis repeated, with marked uneasiness.

"One turn," she murmured, rising. "You don't mind, Mr. Dennis? I'll come back directly the music stops. No encores, I promise."

They were gone before Dennis could protest. Angus led his companion into the thick of the crowd.

"Now tell me quickly what it's all about?" he begged. "Only be careful, because old Sholto is watching us. What can I do for you?"

"You can find out an American named Wheeler B. Piatt, who lives in Park Lane, and tell him ten thousand pounds."

"That seems simple. And if he has anything to say to you what do I do about it? Are you never at Cardenail Buildings?"

"Not now," she answered. "I'm watched too closely. I'll telephone. Be careful."

Angus felt a touch upon his arm. He turned around. Sholto Dennis was standing by his side, very pale and obviously desperately angry.

"Angus," he said, "I ought perhaps to have told you—to have asked for your congratulations. Miss Malcolm and I are engaged."

"My dear fellow!" Angus exclaimed. "Delighted, I'm sure. Wish you every happiness, Miss Malcolm."

She looked across at Dennis with a queer little smile upon her lips.

"Of course," she said slowly, "that does alter things rather, doesn't it? Good-night, Mr. Angus."

It was evidently her wish that he went. She seemed indeed to have lost all interest in him. He bowed and went off to join another party of friends.

Mr. Wheeler B. Piatt was an early visitor at Bellevue Mansions on the following day. He wasted no time in preliminaries.

"Well, gentlemen," he said, "you did what you promised, and you were slick about it, too. You found me the name of the girl, but if she were the man in the iron mask she couldn't be guarded more closely. I've tried every way to get in touch with her, and I can't do it. I guess I've got to pass the business up to you."

"I'm not sure whether it will be a commission we can undertake," Peter Bragg warned him. "There's a certain class of business in which we never interfere, but if you will state the case I will give you a reply."

"Very well," Mr. Piatt acquiesced. " You know, of course, that in three months time there's a whole range of new duties coming into force on a dozen manufactured articles. Cars are what I'm interested in. The duty on these has been raised beyond the original McKenna duty. An American car that can be sold in England to-day complete for £208 is going to cost £278. That means that there'll be none sold at all. We've got two months and nineteen days to make deliveries. I'll tell you, gentlemen, I've got a million and three-quarter pounds' worth of motor cars on the seas, in the packing rooms, in the factories. I've suspended American deliveries, I've got special trains running to the steamers, and I've a special steamer starting from Boston bringing nothing but cars, and due to arrive here a fortnight before these duties come into force. I'd got my coat off, I can tell you, and then I received a cable from one of our agents here. He told me there was a rumour—one of your cabinet ministers had acknowledged it openly—that the duties were to be made retrospective."

Peter Bragg nodded.

"I've heard that," he admitted.

Mr. Wheeler B. Piatt was a man of reserved speech and manner, but, he took out his handkerchief, wiped his forehead and struck the arm of his chair.

"I've raced over here to find out the truth," he said. "My God, if they sprung that on us where should we be? I've two hundred thousand pounds' worth of cars landed already, and not one of then should I be able to sell. I've another load reaching Liverpool to-day, two due at Southampton next week, more on the way, and others loading. Do you know what I did when I landed here? Well, I'll tell you. I went right away to see the Minister who's running this job. I put it to him straight. And I got shot out of the door in thirty seconds. I only asked for a plain answer to a plain question. But do you think I could get it? Not on your life!"

"Of course, you know," Angus intervened, "you could scarcely expect our Government to accept your dumping idea with enthusiasm. These duties are being put on to help our industries, and you propose to give them a pretty shattering blow to start with."

"I've always reckoned England a Free Trade country," Mr. Piatt replied. "My proposition was to see that they had a million and a half of money's worth of cars cheaper than they could make them themselves. Who's going to lose by that?"

"Anyway," Mr. Bragg remarked, "you got no reply."

"I got no reply, and there I am—fairly hung up," Mr. Piatt went mi. "Then I began to try the back-door, as I'd had the front one shut in my face, and it was then I heard about Miss Malcolm."

"And just what did you hear about her?" Angus enquired.

"What you folks know already, I don't doubt. They were drafting the notes of the decisions arrived at in the Cabinet Council in one of the committee-rooms of the House of Commons, and some young idiot sent out for a professional typist. That girl knows what I want to know. I can't get at her. You've got to."

"That's all right," Angus volunteered. "She wants ten thousand pounds."

Mr. Piatt's imperturbability was disturbed. He stared across at Angus.

"You've got at her then?" he demanded eagerly.

"I danced with her for two minutes last night—just as long as I was allowed to. What struck me was that she was just as anxious to get at you as you are to get at her."

Mr. Piatt produced an oblong cheque-book, a stylo, and began to write. Peter Bragg stopped him.

"I'm not at all sure that we can proceed further in this matter," he declared.

"And why not?" Mr. Piatt demanded, glancing up, with the pen still in his hand.

"We are assisting in the divulgement of a Government secret to a foreigner," Peter Bragg pronounced.

"Bunkum!" Mr. Piatt insisted. A matter of five thousand Englishmen will get their cars forty or fifty pounds cheaper if I know what to do."

"Can't see that it makes much difference myself, Pudgy," Angus n marked. "It's just whether you look at the matter from a Free Trader's point of view or a Protectionist's."

In any case," Peter Bragg enquired, "how do you propose to approach the young lady?"

"She'll telephone me," Angus announced. "She telephoned twice yesterday. It was she who gave me the tip to turn up at the Embassy Club."

Mr. Piatt laid the cheque upon the table.

"See here," he proposed, "you bring the girl right along and I guess you don't have to interfere at all. I'll do the talking."

Mr. Bragg touched the bell.

"We will act in your interests, Mr. Piatt," he promised, "so far as we can do so comfortably with other considerations. If you part with your cheque you shall have the information you desire."

With which Mr. Piatt was obliged to be content, and took his leave.

"This ought to make things easy," Angus remarked, about an hour later, as he nodded to the butler, and laid a card upon the table. "Show the gentleman in, Groves."

"Who is it?" Peter Bragg enquired.

"Sholto Dennis," Angus replied. "Come to remonstrate, I suppose. Gad, he was very nearly shirty last night."

Mr. Sholto Dennis, immaculately dressed as usual, as became a young man in a Government Department, was a study of lugubrious woe. He shook hands gloomily with Angus, accepted an introduction to his partner, and sank into his client's chair. He almost forgot to hitch up his perfectly fitting trousers.

"I say, George," he remonstrated, "you're playing it rather low down on a fellow, what?"

"Don't you believe it, laddie," Angus replied. "I've got my job in life just as you've got yours."

"But if I were to come a cropper over this," Dennis pointed out, "I'd lose mine."

"As bad as that?"

Dennis nodded.

"Of course I made a bloomer in sending out for another typist. On the other hand I had instructions to see that the work was finished before I left. I can't type. None of us can. What's the good when there's a staff of young women waiting there for us? I sent for one quite naturally. The next morning the Chief was like a mad bull."

"Well, well! " Angus murmured sympathetically.

"This is how he laid it across me," the young man explained. "If the Cabinet's decision leaks out through my letting the girl copy the last few pages of the agreement, I get the sack. If I can keep her mouth shut I escape with a reprimand. I went to see the girl, and I must say she grasped the point at once. 'Keep me away from everyone,' she begged pathetically. 'I'll try not to be indiscreet, but nowadays, with crêpe-de-Chine getting dearer every day, and hats fit to wear at such an awful price, money means so much.' She put her little hand in mine, and I've tried to keep her away, but, my God, it's a job!"

"Poor old Sholto!"

"We've shut up her flat. She's staying with my sister. We've got an old dragon from the Home Office—used to be a police-woman—supposed never to leave her for a second when I'm away, but, George, old boy, it seems to me I never am away."

"Is that so?" Angus commiserated.

"First of all I have to bring the flowers myself in the morning. Then she wants to start out in time for a stroll in Bond Street and a cocktail before we decide where to lunch. After lunch, Ranelagh or a motor drive somewhere, and a little more shopping. Then another cocktail, a look through the theatre list, and we decide where we dine and spend the evening."

"The young lady must be having quite an amusing time," Peter Bragg observed.

"Yes, but what about me?" her victim complained bitterly. "Of course she's all right and that—nice-looking, wears her clothes well, pass muster anywhere, but everyone knows she's not one of my pals. She's neither fish nor fowl, if you understand what I mean. She ain't musical comedy, and she's not exactly Grosvenor Square."

"You seem to be having a pretty good time with her on the whole," Angus remarked.

The other coughed.

"Oh, well, we get on all right now and then," he admitted—"have a bit of fun together, and all that—but I can't give my mind to it. Even when she's touched me for a theatre cloak or a bracelet and we seem really pally, and I say: 'Look here, Ada, straight, are you going to give me your word of honour that what you saw and typed shall never pass your lips?' Do you know what she answers? She just grips my arm and she says—'Sholto, I'd love to promise, but I can't. I'm so weak.' What the hell can one do with a girl like that?"

"It's difficult," Angus admitted.

"And now you fellows are in the game," the young man pointed out in an aggrieved fashion.

"All in the way of business," Angus reminded him. "I don't mind telling you that we've got a cheque on the table there for ten thousand pounds which she is welcome to the moment she is ready to speak."

"Ten thousand devils!" the other gasped. " That's the end of me."

"Why?"

"You know her latest move—her final turn as declared last night at the Embassy? She says I've got to marry her. She gave me the tip that if I didn't introduce her last night as my fiancée she'd make terms with you. George, do you realise, I shall have to marry the girl?"

"Marry her to save her from earning ten thousand pounds," Angus mused. "Well, she's giving up a bit, you know, Sholto. Of course you seem to have been pretty flush lately."

"Oh, the office are paying all my expenses," the young man explained. " I couldn't do any of this on my own. Except for my salary I haven't got a bob. That's what makes the whole affair so filthy. If you're going to flutter that ten thousand quid about I shall have to marry the girl on eight hundred a year, live in Kensington and clean my own boots."

"The girl would be almost better off with the ten thousand pounds, and without you," Angus ventured.

"Then! lose my job," was the dreary retort.

Angus strolled to the window and back, lit a cigarette and passed over his case.

"Look here, Sholto," he pointed out, "you're in it up to the neck, old man. You can't keep Miss Malcolm from coming into touch with either us or our client for two months, can you?"

"I don't suppose I can."

"If you can't, you've got to many her."

"I suppose so."

"So there's no harm in trying what a pal can do for you. Let me see, to-day's Tuesday. Let me take Miss Malcolm to lunch at Ciro's on Thursday. I've got a sort of idea something might come of it."

"You always were a bright chap, George," Dennis declared earnestly.

"Hop it now, then," Angus enjoined, "and I'll see what I can do. I've got to talk matters over with my partner."

At eleven o'clock precisely, three days later, Mr. Piatt was ushered into the office in Bellevue Mansions. He produced from his pocket a formidable-looking roll of notes and deposited them upon the table.

"Ten thousand pounds in good Bank of England stuff," he announced, "better than any cheque in a deal of this sort. You don't think the girl'll back out?"

"She'll turn up all right," Angus assured him.

"This is a matter upon which there must be no misunderstanding," Peter Bragg declared portentously. "I have drawn up here a brief memorandum. You agree voluntarily to hand over these notes to Miss Malcolm on consideration that she tells you the substance of what she typed respecting the decision arrived at by the Cabinet with regard to retrospective duties on articles coming under the new tariff."

"That's right," Mr. Piatt admitted. "Worth the money, too."

Bragg handed him a pen. He glanced through the memorandum and signed it. A moment later Miss Malcolm was ushered in. She was very becomingly dressed but she looked a little frightened. Angus led her to a chair and patted her hand.

"You're quite sure, Mr. Angus," she said, "that I'm not doing a very terrible thing?"

"My dear young lady, I'm convinced of it. Mr. Piatt here has handed over the money which my partner has now in his possession. He has also signed the agreement. If you will kindly tell us what the decision was which you were allowed to type we can get the business over quickly and without fear of interruption."

Miss Malcolm turned towards Piatt.

"There were a lot of arguments used which didn't amount to anything," she said, "but the resolution arrived at was this: that whether the duties were to be made retrospective or not depended entirely upon the amount of merchandise imported between now and the date of the coming into force of the new treaty."

Mr. Piatt gasped.

"Then they never really arrived at a decision at all," he cried.

"I can scarcely agree with you there, sir," Peter Bragg differed coldly. "It seems to me theirs was a very definite decision of a sort. At any rate, whether you have market value or not, you have what you paid for."

Mr. Piatt was a man of big ideas. He sat for a moment in thoughtful silence. Then he rose to his feet.

"Stung but not squealing, young lady," were his valedictory words. "I'd like to say right here, though, that it seems to me there's been a little more fuss made about you than you're worth."

"Mr. Dennis doesn't think so," she replied modestly.

Peter Bragg listened for a moment to the rattle of the lift in which his late client had descended. Then he looked enquiringly first at Miss Malcolm and then at his partner.

"Is it my fancy," he ventured, "or—or—"

Angus interrupted him.

"Pudgy, my friend," he said, "I plead guilty to a slight amount of secretiveness. I found this rumour of a leakage of information was being talked about, and I got the governor to ask Sholto's Chief a question. It seems the Chief had come to the decision that Sholto was a bit of an ass and had made up his mind to give him a scare. From that I guessed that there was no actual decision in the copied stuff, and when I lunched with Miss Malcolm and put it to her straight she confirmed my idea. Thinking it over, I came to the conclusion that as we're paying America thirteen million a year interest there was no reason why a very charming young lady like Miss Malcolm shouldn't get just a flea-bite back, and a matter of ten thousand pounds is just what old Sholto's been looking for for a long time to start housekeeping with. So there you are.... Ready, Miss Malcolm?" he asked, as he took down his hat.

"Where are you going?" Peter Bragg enquired, as he handed the notes over to Miss Malcolm.

"Round to the registry office to see old Sholto through with it," Angus replied. "You can join us at Claridge's later and drink a glass of wine."</story>