<story title="AN OPPORTUNIST IN ARMS" date="1936">
THE Duke—he looked every inch a duke, although he was lounging straddle-legged with his back to the fire in the famous library of Muggatradore Castle, although his tweeds were muddy and his hair wind-tossed—stood with a list in his hand which he was studying through his eyeglass. The Duchess, seated in an easy chair a few yards away, was watching him with some anxiety.

"H'm," His Grace remarked. "Mostly the old crowd, I see. One or two of them don't know which end of a gun to shoot with! Jimmie, for instance, is no earthly good."

"Everybody invites Jimmie, my dear," his wife reminded him mildly. "Besides, he is your first cousin and his moors almost march."

"That's all right," her husband agreed, "but there are one or two here I don't seem to recognise. Who is Mr. James J. Bresson? Name seems familiar, but I can't place him."

"He is the man Eustace wanted invited, my dear. One of the most interesting men in Europe, they say. You remember that famous Greek who was supposed to own whole countries somewhere in the East—made great fortunes selling guns whenever there was a war—"

"Yes, I remember that chap," the Duke interrupted, "but what has this fellow Bresson got to do with him?"

"Well, according to Eustace, he has made millions the same way," the Duchess explained. "Anyhow, Eustace met him in town and telephoned to know if he might invite him. I can assure you, Gregory, all our guests will be delighted to meet him. He very seldom goes anywhere."

"So long as he doesn't want to shoot," the Duke grunted.

"Of course he may shoot if he wants to," his wife observed placidly. "Half the moors round here are owned by Americans nowadays, and I remember your saying yourself that that man from Philadelphia who took your Argyllshire moor one season was the best man you had ever seen in the butts."

"Yes, yes, that's all right," His Grace agreed. "But here's another name I don't know. A fellow of the name of Rooke apparently. Colin Rooke. Who is he?"

"Well, he is acting for the moment as Bresson's secretary. He is a war correspondent and quite a friend of Eustace's."

The Duke thrust the list into the pocket of his loose coat.

"Well, my dear, I suppose it's all right," he said. "That chap Bresson ought to be interesting, at any rate. They say that if he were ever to write his memoirs several governments would have to resign. Where are the crowd?"

"There's no one here yet, my dear," the Duchess told him. "None of the cars are back from the station, and Eustace has been out with McGregor to look at the butts."

"I'll have my bath and change early, then," the Duke decided. "Don't let anyone open The Times till I come down."

"There will be several copies," his wife assured him. "I will put one away especially for you."

"Kilts, I suppose?" the Duke asked, looking back from the door.

"Of course," she answered. "The McGregors are coming and the Macraes."

The Duke took his leave. His spouse drew a little sigh of relief. Sometimes when there were unexpected visitors the master of Muggatradore was not quite so amenable. She took up her novel, but put it down again almost at once. There was a call of bagpipes from the terrace, the signal that the expected guests were coming through the pass.

* * * * *

Lord Eustace, freckled, sandy-haired, typically Scotch except for the really humorous mouth and deep-set blue eyes, led his mother away as soon as he found a chance.

"Tell me about the governor," he begged. "Is he all right?"

The Duchess smiled.

"He seemed rather interested to have this mysterious Mr. Bresson here," she confided. "He didn't seem to understand why he brought a secretary, but anyhow he is quite all right. Your father is peculiar, but after all, he is not unreasonable. Mr. Bresson is quite a distinguished looking person, and I rather like the look of the young man. How did you get to know him?"

"I met him years ago down in Kenya," Eustace replied, "and I came across him the other day again really through this fellow Bresson."

The Duchess wrinkled her forehead. She was a good-looking woman, but, as she often remarked, she had rather a troublesome family.

"You haven't one of your wild schemes on, have you, Eustace?" she asked anxiously.

"Don't you worry," he laughed.

"No, but seriously," she begged.

The young man looked out from the alcove in which he and his mother were seated across the lounge to a distant bridge table. His father, who had the mysterious Mr. Bresson for a partner, was smoking a cigar and had the air of a man perfectly content with life. Amongst his other accomplishments, Eustace recollected with satisfaction, Bresson had the reputation of being an exceptionally good bridge player.

"There's no question of any wild scheme at all, Mother," he said thoughtfully. "Bresson has always been a keen big-game shot and a great collector of heads. There are just two he is short of and he had fitted out an expedition to go after them very near the northwestern frontier of North Kenya where my surveying job is. Things in Europe are so disturbed just now, however, that he doesn't want to leave, and he has as good as offered me the job of using his outfit, collecting some stuff he has left out there and going after those heads for him."

"I certainly don't see anything to which your father could possibly object in that scheme," the Duchess admitted.

"Of course he couldn't," her son agreed. "Old man Bresson wanted a bit of humouring, though, so I was anxious to have you ask him up here. I can show him some heads of my own here which are pretty rare, and he will meet one or two chaps to-morrow who can give me a boost up. I don't say I am much good at these little brown birds with a shotgun, but I'll back myself with a rifle against most of them."

"Everyone knows how good you are, my dear," the Duchess purred.

"Well, that's all right, Mother," he said. "Only, if anything comes of it and he offers me the job, don't let the governor get awkward, will you?"

The Duchess looked across at her very handsome spouse and smiled.

"It seems to me," she remarked, "that he has already taken a fancy to your friend. I cannot imagine that there would be the slightest difficulty. Now, Eustace, I think you ought to go and dance. Mary will be looking out for you, and the Macrae girls hate being left out."

He rose with a little grimace.

"What a matchmaking mamma you are, old dear," he smiled, gazing towards the distant ballroom. "I warn you, though girls are all very well in their place, that the fun of the evening is going to commence for me when you other people are getting your beauty sleep."

* * * * *

The fun of the evening duly commenced at a little before midnight in Lord Eustace's sitting-room. A footman had seen to it that there was an ample supply of anything likely to be needed in the way of whisky, cigars and cigarettes. Mr. James J. Bresson, a tall, thin man, handsome in a somewhat ascetic fashion, was comfortably established in an easy chair with his favourite drink—whisky and water—by his side, and his pipe in his mouth. Colin Rooke, who could scarcely conceal his eagerness, was seated a few feet in the background, and the host himself was sprawling over the table upon which a large map was spread open. Mr. Bresson looked speculatively at his two companions.

"I wonder how much you two young men know about me?" he said. "I mean, apart from these silly stories in the newspapers."

"I don't know much," Eustace confessed frankly.

"I know the usual tosh about your being the mystery man of the world, that you are able when it pleases you to finance governments, that in many of the smaller wars you have supplied both sides with all the arms and munitions they required, and that you have built up a gigantic fortune chiefly by being in the position to supply armaments and sometimes even an odd battleship just at the moment it was required."

Mr. Bresson smiled slightly.

"I never meddle much with battleships," he observed, glancing for a moment at one of his fingernails which seemed to displease him. "Of course, there was that Greek cruiser— But I forget, we are not here to gossip. I need the help of two young men, one of whom should be a journalist and have the necessary qualifications to become a war correspondent, and the other with connections in Kenya. It is possible that you two might serve my purpose."

"Down to the ground, I should think," Eustace observed. "I have a job in Kenya at the present moment, and Rooke here has been a journalist all his life, and has his papers for Abyssinia in case there is any trouble there."

"Sounds all right," Bresson assented. "Now listen, you two, and I will talk about myself for a moment or two—a thing I don't often do. There isn't anything very mysterious about James J. Bresson except that sometimes I can scarcely realise how much money I have actually made in a queer sort of way. But let that go. What I have done is to travel almost without ceasing and to watch the politics of the different countries I have visited. I can nearly always spot a country where a war is likely to take place. I then buy guns, rifles, Maxims, ammunition in different countries, and have them consigned to different ports. I then concentrate them and find a hiding-place—perhaps I should say a secret store—if possible in a neutral country, but quite close to where the fighting is likely to take place. Then when war breaks out I am there with the goods, and three hundred per cent profit is a trifle to what I have cleared once or twice. I am not going to give away too much of my business, but the whole world was wondering a few years ago where Japan got those marvellous rifles of hers and all those field-guns. I knew, because I had had them stored up for her some five or six years in a couple of old battleships I bought for a song. Are you boys interested?"

"I should say we are," Lord Eustace declared.

Bresson helped himself to whisky, poured in the requisite amount of water, knocked out his pipe and slowly refilled it.

"Well, I am going to talk to you now only about the case in which we are interested. After Adowa I took care to pay a visit to Abyssinia. I did a little business there—nothing to speak of, but I got rid of some old stuff I had lying about in Turkey. Not so very long ago I paid another visit there and since then I have been pretty busy. Do you happen to know anything about Lake Rudolf, Lord Eustace?"

"Of course I do," the latter replied. "It is up in the northwest corner of Kenya."

"Well, there are very few people outside Kenya who have ever heard of it," Bresson continued. "It is a dreary stretch of water and as hot as hell. The top part of the lake, though, is in Abyssinian territory, and somewhere near that territory, either on the lake or hidden near it, there are enough arms and Maxim guns to keep the Abyssinians in good shape for a time."

"My God!" Eustace exclaimed. "Where did they come from?"

"Well, some of them came from the Germans," Bresson confided. "That's a chapter of secret history for you that scarcely a living man except myself knows, but when the Germans gave up the fight in their little bit of East Africa they sold the whole of their reserve stock of guns and munitions, and as I am the only man alive in that sort of business, they sold it to me. It took some getting through and round Kenya and up to the lake, but we managed it somehow. Then, of course, those were not all stores that we had to have four hundred natives for when I crossed Kenya from the sea. There were other ways, too—"

"Those legends of the mammoth bats in the sky," Eustace interrupted. "We used to put all that native talk down to their priests."

"If you were to drain Lake Rudolf".' Bresson told them, "you would find half a dozen derelicts. All the same, for half a dozen we lost—and they were heavyweight carriers, too—thirty or forty of them did the trick. Anyway, the stuff's there, and I'm going to sell it to Abyssinia."

"Are we coming into this?" Colin Rooke asked eagerly.

"You are if you want to take it on," Bresson promised, speaking a little more seriously. "I don't mind telling you it will take hours to give you all the details of what has to be done—and there are risks. The country where the stuff is hidden is, for one thing, scarcely habitable for human beings. I have been there and I know. There's only one way of moving that stuff up to the north end of the lake, and that is on a kind of raft I have had made with an outboard motor. When you are once up the north end of the lake the native Abyssinians can take care of the rest. It is only a few hundred miles to the capital."

"Tell me," Colin Rooke asked, "supposing you bring it off and deliver the goods, how do you know Abyssinia will ever be able to pay for them?"

Bresson's eyes twinkled.

"That's a good Anglo-Saxon question," he observed. "You don't need to trouble about that, though. That's my little secret. All I need say to you two is—if Lord Eustace here helps me to get one more of my sporting expeditions through the colony, and you, Mr. Rooke, keep in touch with the Abyssinian government through your job as war correspondent, you will get your money whether I am paid or not."

"How much?" Eustace asked pleasantly but bluntly.

Mr. Bresson smiled. He glanced at the clock, finished his whisky and water and knocked out his pipe.

"You may be a Duke's son all right, Lord Eustace," he said, "but you are a good Scotchman all the same. Thirty thousand each is what you will touch—and you will get most of your instructions from me, never mind how. If you are on, you must arrange somehow or other to give me an hour or two in London not later than Wednesday. I've got to have a little conversation with the government at Addis Ababa before the fun starts, and I have planned to take Thursday's plane to Khartoum. Like to sleep on it, my young friends?"

"No need," Eustace declared. "I'm on."

"So am I," Colin Rooke echoed heartily.

Bresson looked at the two young men with keen, steely eyes.

"Remember," he warned them, "at the best there's risk. I am going up with the expedition as far as Lake Rudolf myself, so I shan't be much better off than Lord Eustace here, but if our friends get a-swotting too soon and your share in this business gets out, Mr. Rooke, you may be in worse trouble than either of us."

Colin smiled. His silence was in itself eloquent.

* * * * *

Never before had a visitor appeared in the Hall of the Kings at Addis Ababa in such a condition. Colin Rooke, his clothes almost stripped from his back, his cheeks long and gaunt, his face unshaven, his steps feeble, was almost dragged by the two tall negroes in their magnificent uniforms to the steps of the small throne. Its occupant frowned.

"Who is this?" he demanded.

There was a confusion of voices. Colin, with trembling fingers, produced the document he had been zealously guarding. The King motioned the guard to place him in the chair of audience and called to another servant. Then he turned to his visitor.

"One comes who English speaks," he announced.

Again the babel of tongues. The King waved his hand and his entourage fell back. Colin Rooke touched his lips, opened his mouth. The King understood. The exhausted traveller began to wonder whether the whole thing was some fantastic dream when from a magnificent silver salver he was handed a bottle of White Label whisky, a common public-house tumbler and a siphon of soda-water! Colin forgot that he was seated in the presence of a monarch; he forgot everything except that raging thirst, that sinking inside. He half filled the tumbler with whisky, filled it to the brim with soda and drank.

"Where come?" the King asked.

"Lake Rudolf," Colin answered.

The King looked at him as one might look at a madman. At that moment there was a disturbance at the door. A girl in European costume save for the shawl around her shoulders, followed by two women-in-waiting, presented herself. Colin half rose to his feet. The girl looked into his eyes. She was dark of complexion, but she had features which might have belonged to a high-class English Jewess. Her voice, when her lips moved, was like magic. She spoke English as though it were her own tongue, and to Colin it was almost as marvellous as the drink which had set life singing through his veins.

"Where are you from?" she asked. "My father is puzzled. How did you get here? We do not understand. There has been no train for two days."

Colin felt his head swimming.

"Listen," he begged. "I have eaten nothing for many days, and then I killed a man for what I stole. Now I have drunk. Some bread—anything! Can't you see that I am starving?"

"You poor man," she sympathised. "Food shall come. Wait for a few minutes before you try to speak."

She gave orders. A file of servants disappeared. The King sat immovable. The girl talked to him. Then she turned to Colin.

"My father does not understand," she explained. "He speaks a very little English, but he has never left our country. I have been to Paris and England. I understand. You shall have something to eat directly."

For the first time in history food, bread and fruit chiefly, was served on the little table which stood in front of the visitor at audience. Colin Rooke ate and all the time he watched the girl as she watched him. In ten minutes he rose and bowed. He drank more of the whisky.

"Your Majesty!" he said

The King smiled. He waved his hand. The table was cleared.

"If you are the King's daughter," Colin asked the interpretress, "may I call you Princess?"

"I am the Princess Zola," she acknowledged simply.

"I am an emissary of that great man James J. Bresson," Colin Rooke announced. "Within a hundred miles of the capital here we have a great store of guns of every sort and hundreds of boxes of ammunition. There are more behind on the rafts we have brought up from Lake Rudolf."

The Princess looked at him with fixed eyes.

"You speak the truth?" she demanded.

"I speak the truth as God is my witness," he answered.

She turned to the King and told him the news. Servants were running here and there. From across the square ministers came hurrying in, followed by men in uniform. All for a time was confusion.

"Tell me," Rooke asked, clutching the Princess by the arm, "is it war yet?"

"No war has been declared," she told him. "At the last moment they said that Italy was listening to words from America. We do not fear war if we have the means of defence. If we have those, we can at least fight in dignity. Sit and rest. These are members of the King's Council whom you see taking their seats with my father. They will decide how best to deal with your message. They want to know—they are all asking—how near is the first convoy?"

Colin Rooke pointed out of the huge oval window.

"On the other side of the mountain," he declared. "From there back to the north end of the lake is one long trail. We had a thousand mules, but half of them have perished. Once in the hills all was well, but down on the plain what water we brought from the lake soon went and the wells were dry. In an hour— two hours—I shall be ready to show you the place where my convoys are waiting for help. Plenty of mules—horses if you have them—there are a few motor lorries I saw on the outskirts of the city—everything that can bring merchandise."

The King spoke and his daughter nodded gravely.

"My father," she told Colin, "says that you must rest here in the Palace for some hours, then you must go back with the expedition which we are preparing. You can ride in a car for thirty miles and after that there shall be mules."

Rooke staggered to his feet.

"To sleep will be Paradise," he muttered.

* * * * *

He awoke into a world which it seemed to him must be one of sheer fantasy. He was lying on a low couch in a large and airy tent. A cool wind was blowing on to his face, his limbs were no longer hot. He was clad in soft underwear and linen riding-clothes. On either side of him was a tall Ethiopian soldier standing motionless. Through the opening of the tent was another slimmer figure standing as though on guard, and beyond a deep-blue sky, clear and starlit.

"Where am I?" he demanded.

At the sound of his voice the figure outside turned round. A big lantern was lit in front of the tent. It was the King's daughter, in riding-clothes of European cut, with a shawl wrapped round her shoulders, bareheaded, with jet-black hair from which flashed many jewels, who smiled in upon him.

"You are already thirty miles upon the way southwards," she told him. "We have a hospital in the capital where they took care of you and you have on clothes belonging to one of the young English attachés. No, you need not be afraid," she added quickly; "they know nothing of your errand. Tell me—you feel better?"

"I'm hungry," he confessed.

Servants gathered round. By the light of the lantern outside a feast was spread upon the rocks. She sat down opposite, served him and ate with him. There was wine which she drank—champagne of a well-known brand. He shook his head as the servant passed him the bottle.

"This air is getting a little heady for me," he said. "I'll stick to the whisky."

"We have a trail of pack-mules now reaching for miles," she recounted. "There are some lorries, too, but they are on ahead. We will ride with the dawn and by night we shall be up with some of your people. Shall we see that strange American—Mr. Bresson?"

"Who knows? Who cares?" he replied.

She laughed.

"He is a very nice man—Mr. Bresson," she said. "It is he who will have saved my country."

"Don't you believe it," Rooke protested. "If anyone saves you, it will be Geneva."

"There were rumours yesterday," she confided, "that America had sent a message to Italy. It will not matter now. If your guns are good and there is plenty of ammunition, perhaps it is better that we fight. I am to ride with the army. Did you know that I was a soldier?"

"I am not surprised," he answered. "Nothing will ever surprise me again after this supper with a Princess of Abyssinia on the edge of a precipice, in the midst of a silence which is almost like the silence of eternity."

"You would like me to sing to you?" she asked. "Ah, but look—"

She pointed eastward with her finger. He saw the long white shaft of light through the purple clouds.

"Soon the sun will come from there," she said; "then we must start. You wish for cigarettes? There are all makes here."

One of the soldiers of the expedition came and talked to the Princess. He addressed her with the deepest reverence, one knee bent. She waved him away with a word of approval.

"We ride in two hours," she announced. "Go back and sleep if you will. To-morrow there are many things I have to ask you."

Colin staggered back to his couch.

"To-morrow will be another day," he muttered. . . .

There was no more sleep for him that night, only a troubled doze in a world of fantasies. The cool mountain breeze played around his head. Every now and then he caught the faint fragrance of strange plants and herbage growing out of the clefts of the volcanic mountains. His two guards, massive and imposing figures, stood motionless outside the tent. The girl had gone. Once in that doze he fancied that he heard soft footsteps upon the rush matting which had been strewn on the floor of the tent, he even fancied that through his flickering eyelids he caught a glimpse of a strong, fierce face with a woman's lips, soft yet passion-stirred black eyes. There might almost have been a sound of quick breathing. He closed his eyes a little tighter. The perfume must be coming from some flowers in the valley. He lay quite still, fighting in his doze against the urge of breathless curiosity. He kept them closed until it seemed to him that a puff of wind from outside had brought with it the faint murmur of a sigh.

* * * * *

Once again, in very different guise, Colin sat in the chair of audience on the other side of the round table. Black-bearded, dark, majestic, the King Emperor of Abyssinia sat upon his throne. In the background stood a strange interpreter, a young man who had served his days of scholarship at Harvard and Oxford, whose English was glib and whose speech was curiously punctuated with some of the affectations of the West.

"His Majesty desires me," he said, addressing Colin, "to offer you this thanks for your great work, the work of your colleague in Kenya, and the brains of your master, the great American, Bresson, which have been of service to His Majesty and our distressed country. We have arms which we never hoped to possess. Our soldiers are cheered with a new confidence."

"I am glad that all has turned out so well," Colin declared. "You will explain to His Majesty, if you please, that as a neutral I must remain dumb, although I hope to see much of the fighting if fighting there be."

The interpreter spoke for a moment to his august master, who answered him in several brief sentences. Then the former turned once more to Colin.

"The money for the arms," he went on, "is deposited in the name of Mr. James J. Bresson in the Bank of England in London. There is also a sum of sixty thousand pounds to be divided, we understand, between you and your helper in Kenya. Beyond that, Mr. Rooke, what I have to say will, I fear, not be so pleasant. I regret to announce that His Majesty is not able to accept your position as war correspondent for your great English newspaper."

Colin stared at the speaker, for a moment, wordless.

"His Majesty may have his own reasons," the young man continued, "but he begs that you will accept them without demur. The railway is still running, accommodation has been reserved for you in the train. It only awaits your arrival at the depot to depart. He wishes you a safe and happy journey to England."

The protest died away on Colin's lips. He rose to his feet with bowed head.

"One moment," the interpreter begged. "His Majesty speaks a few words of English. He desires to speak his farewell to you. Afterwards you will join me in the anteroom."

The young man took his leave. Colin remained upon his feet, but his head was raised. He waited for the Emperor's words. Soon they came—slowly spoken, chosen as though with difficulty from a very limited vocabulary.

"Young Englishman," he said, "Abyssinia thanks you, its monarch thanks you for a great feat. Whether indeed this war comes or not you will have taken from it some of the nausea of massacre. You come of a race we have always honoured. From this hour forward I, the King, will honour it even more. You have shown the courage of a lion—our favourite beast—and the honour of a great gentleman. You will accept—"

The King leaned forward, unfolded his clasped hands and whispered a single word. . . .

Colin found himself presently in the anteroom, found himself driving in a crazy Ford through that strange medley of streets with open shops and rancid smells, through a modern square, and back again through the semi-Oriental, semi-barbaric slough of the native quarter. Not until he found himself in a modern railway carriage of familiar type, with wine, fruit, cigarettes and flowers on the small table in front of him, not indeed until the train had started its long journey across the jolting way, did he remove his left hand from his right and realise that he was wearing the Emperor's signet ring.</story>