<story title="MIRACLE AT MONTE CARLO" date="1936">
COLIN ROOKE stood in the comfortable little hall of the Brancaster Dormy House Club, his pipe in his mouth and his hands in the loose pockets of his tweed knickerbockers, gazing disconsolately at the letter-rack. There was a hopeless chasm in the aperture marked with an R.

"That's the last post of the day, is it, Large?" he asked the porter.

"Nothing more till to-morrow morning, sir," the man replied.

Colin turned away frowning. His rough clothes were still heavy with the moisture of the driving mist and the sting of the north wind roaring across the marshes was on his cheeks. A hot bath, tea and toast, and a rubber of bridge were clearly indicated. All the same it wasn't like Ann to leave him for a week without a letter. On the landing a giant of a man in a flaming orange-coloured dressing-gown greeted him amicably—Dunrobin, the scratch golfer and a mighty hitter.

"Hello, Rooke! Down for the week-end?"

"Might stay a little longer if it doesn't get too infernally cold," Colin answered. "I'm supposed to be finishing up Marley's duck shoot. Not much good if the wind doesn't change. When did you turn up?"

"Last night, but I was dining over at Hunstanton," the other replied. "I heard you were here. By the by, I ran across a very charming young woman—a Miss Rooke—down at Monte Carlo. Any connection?"

"Don't think so."

"An uncommon name rather. This was a Miss Ann Rooke. A very smart young lady with beautiful brown hair and hazel eyes—quite a beauty. Christian name Ann."

For a moment Colin stared at his acquaintance in bewildered silence.

"That sounds rather like a second cousin of mine, but I hadn't heard she was going away. I thought she was in London."

"She arrived in Monte Carlo by the Train Bleu on Thursday," Dunrobin confided. "She was dining the same night with some of the musical crowd I know slightly."

"You didn't meet her, I suppose?" Colin enquired.

The other shook his head.

"I wish I had," he admitted. "I didn't know the people she was with well enough to butt in. Going out after the duck to-night?"

Colin was feeling a little dazed.

"Don't think so. We did pretty well last evening. I've had two rounds of golf and I'm pretty well wet through. I'm going to have a bath and change."

"Sound idea," his friend observed as he made his way along the corridor.

Mechanically Colin turned on the bath, stripped and disappeared for a time in a cloud of steaming vapour. Afterwards he donned the informal dinner costume which the valet had prepared and descended into the lounge. He ordered tea and toast but found himself without his usual appetite. The toast seemed burnt and the tea flavourless. There could scarcely be another Ann Rooke who was remarkable for her brown hair and hazel eyes, but what was she doing in Monte Carlo? It seemed incredible that she should have gone there without a word to him. When he had left town it had been arranged that she should go down to Somersetshire to a country house-party and they were both to return to London on the same day. Monte Carlo without a word to him! It was incredible. He lit his pipe after tea, strolled across to the hall-porter's small bureau and demanded London on the telephone. In a few minutes he found himself speaking to the commissionaire of the building in which Ann had her small flat.

"Miss Rooke, sir?" the former replied. "Not here at present. She went away last Wednesday."

"Have you any idea where she went?" Colin asked. "This is Mr. Rooke speaking."

"I recognised your voice, sir," the man acknowledged. "I know where she went because I took her place for her on the Train Bleu. She went to Monte Carlo."

"Did she take the maid with her—Mrs. Holmes?"

"No, sir. Mrs. Holmes is in the flat. Would you like to speak to her?"

"If you please."

"I'll put you through, sir."

Mrs. Holmes was difficult—a little disturbed, Colin fancied. Her mistress's departure was entirely unexpected, she confessed. They had been going to Somersetshire on Tuesday but Miss Rooke had suddenly changed her mind and sent for a ticket for Monte Carlo. Mrs. Holmes had no idea of the reason. Miss Rooke had received no special visitors. The telephone she couldn't answer for.

"I don't suppose there's any harm in telling you this, sir," she wound up diffidently. "Miss Rooke did seem a little worried before she left and she wrote you a letter, sir, but told me not to post it. It is here at the flat and nothing was to be done about it unless you came here yourself or seemed in any way upset at her sudden departure."

"Did your mistress say when she would be returning?" Colin asked.

"She didn't seem to know herself, sir," the woman confided. "The whole thing seemed to have been decided upon all at once. There was one telephone message," the woman added reluctantly, "which seemed to have something to do with it but I can't tell you for certain who it was from."

"Have a shot at it, Mrs. Holmes," Colin begged. "It may be important."

"Well, I did hear something about the telephone message being from a Lady Kennard. Something was said, I remember, about the Directors' Room at Covent Garden and a Mr. Regnier," the woman confessed.

"Hold the letter for me," Colin snapped. "Stay in all the morning, Mrs. Holmes. I shall be with you before lunch."

"Very good, sir," the woman assented meekly. . . .

Colin made his way back to the lounge, drank two whisky-and-sodas instead of one, revoked twice in the only rubber of bridge he played, and departed soon after dinner for Norwich to sleep at the Maid's Head Hotel and catch the early morning train for London.

The contents of the note which Colin found awaiting him in Ann's tiny flat brought him little consolation.


COLIN, MY DEAR, [he read, in Ann's scrawly handwriting] Don't be angry with me, please. This is the last time, I promise you, unless we are working together, but I just couldn't refuse to help in—well, a certain little matter. You shall be the first to know all about it.
I am hoping that I will get back before you discover that I am playing truant for a day or two, but if not, don't worry and don't be cross with me.
Ever yours, ANN

"Tell me about the telephone message," Colin said as he thrust the letter into his pocket.

"The bell rang on Monday night, sir. I answered it. I understood the gentleman to say that he was speaking from some office in connection with Covent Garden on behalf of Lady Kennard, and when Miss Ann spoke I did hear her say 'Is that Mr. Regnier?' That's all I can tell you, sir. Miss Ann seemed quite excited afterwards. I had to unpack all her things for Somersetshire and she's gone off. I can't tell you any more, sir."

"Thank you," Colin said. "I'll find out the rest for myself."

Inspector Deanes Seymour was preparing to leave his room to keep a luncheon engagement when Colin Rooke's card was brought to him. He glanced at it with uplifted eyebrows.

"I'd like to see Mr. Rooke by appointment," he said, "but just now—"

There was no time to finish his sentence. Colin Rooke was there, grim and furious. Seymour's first impulse was of irritation.

"What the dickens is the matter with you, Rooke?" he demanded.

"You are going to find out," was the swift reply. "Where have you sent Ann Rooke?"

"I don't know what you are talking about," Seymour declared. "I haven't seen or heard anything of her for weeks."

Colin Rooke checked the expletive which would have ended the conversation. He remained silent for a moment. The inspector realised that he was in deadly earnest.

"Sit down, Rooke," he enjoined. "Pull yourself together. Get this into your head. I promised you I wouldn't make use of Miss Rooke's services any more without giving you warning. I have kept my word. I haven't corresponded with or approached her in any way. Now tell me what's happened to her?"

Rooke told his story. Seymour listened and his expression became grave.

"This sounds to me like a put-up job, Rooke," he said. "I have neither rung up Miss Rooke nor approached her in any way. How did you know that she was at Monte Carlo?"

"A friend of mine at Brancaster told me the night before last that she was there. She arrived just before he left. I hadn't heard a word from her, so I rang up her apartment last night. The hall-porter told me that he had booked her place on the Train Bleu. I shall charter a plane this afternoon and try and get through as far as Cannes."

"Steady on," the inspector replied. "Don't make up your mind quite so quickly."

"What the devil else is there to do?" Colin demanded.

"Use a little common sense," was the blunt reply. "We'll take it for granted, especially if this fellow Regnier is mixed up in it, that this may be a criminal attempt to abduct Miss Rooke. There's one thing very certain, though. You have been asked, absolutely invited, to follow Miss Rooke to Monte Carlo. Your friend having seen her there—that part of it is helpful. On the other hand, if you do the obvious thing and go there after her, it's a box of cigars to a packet of half penny squiffs that she won't be there. She'll be where you least expect to find her."

"Where do you mean?" Colin demanded.

Seymour glanced at his watch.

"No use getting panicky, young fellow," he said. "We'll discuss that over lunch."

Luncheon produced very little in the way of inspiration. The only common conclusions the two men were able to arrive at were firstly that the person who was responsible for Ann's disappearance had taken not the slightest trouble to induce her to conceal her movements, and that being so, it was obvious that they were either indifferent as to Colin's following her to Monte Carlo, or that they believed Ann's interest in her mission was sufficiently strong to weigh against any influence which Colin might bring to bear. As for Lady Kennard, she was reported to be in her flat in Paris, which she had not left for three weeks.

"Personally," Seymour summed up, "I have arrived at only one conclusion. You say you have already wired Miss Rooke to ask for an explanation of this change in her plans. I should wait till you get a reply before you start out to follow her."

"That's all very well, but she may not get the telegram," Colin protested.

"Give her time to reply before you do what it seems the person who is responsible for her journey is inviting you to do—to rush off to Monte Carlo after her," Seymour said bluntly. "I don't mind telling you, Rooke, that the first move, after all, is ours. Whilst you were waiting for the taxi I slipped down to our Overseas Department and I ordered our telephone operator to put a call through to Howes, one of our agents in Paris—the best we have, as a matter of fact. He poses as correspondent to a London daily, but he's done a lot of fine work for us. I instructed him first to call on Lady Kennard and ascertain what her movements had been for the last few weeks, then to hire a plane and get to Cannes to-night, motor over to Monte Carlo and report as to the doings of Miss Ann Rooke. That is a little quicker than anyone who is up to mischief could expect to be disturbed."

Colin smiled for the first time.

"That was a damned good idea," he said. "I know Howes, although I didn't know he worked for you. He's a clever fellow."

"He's a quick worker, anyhow," Seymour continued. "The message will catch him before he goes out. We have our fixed hours for telephone conversations, and I shouldn't be surprised if he wasn't on his way to Le Bourget by now. My advice to you, Colin, is not to walk into such a clumsily baited trap. You have been practically invited to go to Monte Carlo. If you take my advice, you will stay here and await Howes's report."

"I'll do it," Colin promised disconsolately.

"And meantime," Seymour enjoined as he turned round to ask the waiter for the bill, "do you mind looking at the gentleman in neat tweeds and pince-nez who is seated at the table near the door, reading a newspaper? I should be interested to know if you ever saw him before."

Colin glanced carelessly at the stranger and paused to light a cigarette. A moment or two later he leaned across the table:

"I am almost certain," he confided, "that he travelled up from Norwich with me this morning."

"I should think it highly probable," Seymour said dryly. "If you tried to catch the two-twenty or took a taxi down to Croydon, you would probably see quite a great deal more of him."

Seymour paid the bill, the two men rose to their feet and strolled towards the door. The man in the pince-nez took no notice of them. He did not even raise his head from the paper. Outside, on the pavement, the commissionaire threw open the door of the taxicab which he had summoned.

"Where to, sir?" he asked.

"Heston Aerodrome," Seymour replied.

The chauffeur was occupied for a minute or two in backing his taxicab in order to turn round.

"I only wanted to make sure of that fellow," Seymour explained. "He goes on to our black list this afternoon. Don't turn your head but just glance through the window as we pass."

Colin did as he was bidden. The commissionaire had entered the restaurant and they could see his tall form bending over the table near the door at which the man with the pince-nez was seated.

"An amateur's trick," Seymour remarked as he redirected the driver a little later on. "It may be that he is off your track for half an hour, though."

Colin Rooke spent an unusual afternoon reading up the geography where the next war was likely to take place, and telephoned to one or two acquaintances. At about five o'clock a uniformed inspector brought him an official note from Scotland Yard. He broke open the seal and read:


Sorry, Colin—Things aren't going quite our way. Howes's car was run into by a lorry on his way to Le Bourget. Howes is in hospital and will be off the map for a week. Stay where you are till you see me. I have a conference with the Chief in half an hour.

That period of waiting was not one of the pleasantest in Colin's young life.

* * * * *

The curtain of the opera house in Monte Carlo had fallen upon the first act of a well-known popular opera. Hand in hand the artistes had made their bows. The applause died away, the lights glowed with an increased radiance, there was a rustle of programmes, the murmur of voices. In a moment or two the exodus to the forum outside began. In Monte Carlo the women as well as the men join in that friendly little parade. It is not perhaps the occasion on which the most wonderful toilettes are worn. Those are reserved for the semiroyal banquets on gala nights at the Sporting Club. Here, however, congregate the lovers of music, and the people who love music have always their particular niche in the world.

Ann Rooke was seated in the front row of the last amphitheatre of stalls, a little raised above the others and usually much sought after. By her side throughout the act had been the only vacant seat in the place. Ann was looking her best, although there was an air of detachment about her, which showed that she was living in a world where such matters as a successful toilette are not the greatest things that count. A psychologist who had studied her throughout the evening would probably have decided that it was not the very beautifully rendered music but the empty seat by her side which was responsible for her aloofness. She had the air of a woman who was suffering at the same time from the strain of a great anticipation and a poignant fear. On their way out there was scarcely one of the chattering, gossiping crowd who did not look twice at this young woman seated alone, a stranger to nearly everybody, yet in her way remarkable. She was still there when they came back again. She seemed to be looking nowhere in particular. Her eyes sought no recognition from the few friends she might have had. A great novelist, who lived on one of the Caps a few miles away, summed up her attitude best perhaps when he remarked to his companion on his way back to his seat:

"That young woman is waiting."

"For what?" the other asked.

The novelist shrugged his shoulders.

"For something to happen," he said. "I don't even myself know yet whether it is to be a tragedy or a comedy."

"The worst of our host is," one of the others in the party remarked, "that he looks at everyone with a coldly professional eye."

"And the worst of you, my dear philanderer," the novelist rejoined, "is that you see nothing but mere sex in every beautiful woman you glance at. Their passions and moods mean nothing to you. I tell you that that girl is either suffering, or hoping, or fearing more intensely than you will ever be able to do in your butterfly life. . . ."

The lights went out. The overture, a very short one, commenced, and the curtain rose. Almost from the first the wonder began. There were some who in the first act had criticised in casual but friendly fashion the singing of the tenor, but the first notes of his marvellous song, stealing out from a hidden place at the back of the stage, brought with them perplexity and wonder. Then the whole house thrilled to what was happening. No one understood. They only listened. The voice grew in volume and beauty. It became inhuman. There were many who were more than slightly baffled, who thought that their favourite was strangely excelling himself, but there were others who refused to believe their senses, whom nothing could convince that it was indeed the man whose name was printed upon the programme or any other man whom they had ever heard, who was filling the strange, electrified atmosphere of the place with those strains of marvellous, soul-racking melody. The silence of an audience thrilled to the very core by something which appeals to the senses is a thing one rarely hears. Even their breathing seemed suspended. There was not a cough, not once the movement of an impatient foot, the flutter of a single programme. There was a silence which had in it something almost awful. . . .

The flood of melody died away. The song had come to an end. Nevertheless, that curious silence continued—even those shadowy figures on the stage seemed to be waiting for something which never came. There was scarcely a soul in the great audience who was not spellbound. Applause would have appeared incongruous. In silence everyone waited until the burden of the opera was taken up, then there was a dim murmur of voices, a sort of sigh, as of pent-up emotions. The orchestra bent over their instruments, the routine of producing a famous work passed on. It was doubtful whether a single member of the audience was still following the story towards its climax. They were obsessed by the idea that a miracle had happened, but of that miracle there came no explanation. The act passed to its end. There was a little more than the customary applause but there were loud and indistinguishable calls from the back of the auditorium. The performers bowed their acknowledgment from the front. Presently, as the voices swelled in volume, the baritone stepped forward.

"Mesdames et messieurs," he said. "I have to offer you the apologies of Signor Catti who is temporarily unwell. He hopes to make his acknowledgments to you after the last curtain."

That was all. People rose slowly and unwillingly to their feet. Everyone was talking, it seemed, at the top of their voices, and it was just at that moment that Ann, still seated in the same place, still with the empty seat by her side, looked across at the crowd who were wedged in against the wall and met the fierce, demanding eyes of the man who had stepped out of his plane only an hour ago. With a little less than his usual courtesy of manner he struggled through the mass of people till he stood by her side. They both seemed to recognise the futility of empty words. Whilst he paused for a minute to recover his breath she spoke first.

"I hoped so much that you would not come, Colin," she said.

"And since I am here?"

"I shall only pray that you will go away," she went on. "These may be our final words, Colin, if you will not do as I ask."

"For whom are you guarding that seat?" he demanded.

"That is above all the one thing I shall not tell you," she replied.

Colin was passionately angry, but passionately quiet.

"Then I will occupy it until your friend arrives," he said.

He leaned forward and suddenly became conscious of the presence of two of the black-liveried attendants of the place. A firm, almost threatening voice was in his ear.

"Pardon, monsieur. Cette place est reservée."

Colin made what was almost the effort of his life. He kept his temper and his presence of mind.

"In that case," he said calmly, "I will listen to the finish of the opera from the gangway."

The usher fell back. Ann, although she was conscious of the menace in Colin's voice, felt curiously helpless. She watched him resume his place against the wall, where he stood with folded arms. Her little gesture of appeal passed unnoticed. He remained there sullenly waiting. Ann, clasping the programme in her hand, also waited.

* * * * *

No one saw it happen—not even Colin. He glanced towards the stage as the curtain rose on the final act of the opera, and when he looked back again there was a man seated in the vacant place by Ann's side. Taking stock of him with a kind of critical fury, Colin found him hard to place. He was obviously a foreigner, with that peculiar pallor which only Italians appear to achieve. He was unusually short and stocky of build, with broad shoulders and legs which scarcely reached the floor. His eyes were large and deep-set. They seemed to wander everywhere and see nothing. He had the air of a man who was nervous and ill at ease and yet he gave one the impression of a man whose soul was at rest, who had achieved something which had been his life's desire. The music of the opera flowed on. The tenor took the stage, greeted on his appearance by a roar of long-repressed applause. His attitude seemed curiously unconvincing. His brows were jerky, his disclaiming gestures almost the gestures of an irritated man. When there was silence and he sang, something akin to consternation seemed to seize upon the audience. It was the same artist, but never the same music. His voice seemed to have lost value and quality. People began to shuffle their feet and Colin, himself puzzled, glanced towards Ann. There was a smile of understanding at the corners of her lips. Her companion sat with folded arms. His manner had lost its uneasiness, his pallor was almost unearthly, his eyes— half closed—were fixed upon the stage, his head moved slightly to the rhythm. Again that smile of content played about his lips, more meaningless now than ever.

The final curtain fell amidst rounds of somewhat dubious applause. Colin, wedged in with the crowd who were struggling towards the exit, found himself at a hopeless disadvantage. Two or three of the ushers busied themselves in making a clear way for Ann and her companion. They were already out of sight when Colin reached the atrium. It was thinly crowded and there was no sign of either of them. He made his way to the underground passage and took the lift into the Hôtel de Paris. He searched the lounge, still without success. Half mechanically he crossed the hall and took the passage into the Sporting Club. The Salles de Jeux were half empty, as was not unusual on opera nights. He passed on into the bar. In a distant corner, almost invisible, Ann and her companion of the opera were seated. The place was otherwise deserted. Colin hesitated. Ann broke off in the midst of what seemed to be an appeal to her companion and, rising to her feet, beckoned to him. Colin started eagerly forward. He had scarcely taken half a dozen steps when he felt himself pushed on one side. A man who had just entered—tall and burly, dressed in the dinner garb of the moment, but with a soft silk shirt and flowing black tie—pushed his way past him and strode across the floor towards the table. Colin caught sight of something concealed in his hand and took a quick step forward.

"Look out for this fellow!" he called out to Ann. "He's carrying a gun or something."

The man swung round and struck an ineffective blow with his left hand at Colin. In another moment his right wrist was gripped in a clutch of iron and the weapon which he had been holding clattered on to the carpet. Colin kicked it away under a neighbouring table. The newcomer, powerless in, the younger man's grasp, shouted furiously at Ann's companion.

"Devil!" he cried "Imp of hell! I am ruined forever!"

The man of small stature scowled.

"And I," he rejoined bitterly, "have never faced ruin, because I have never known success."

"It was a foul plot this!" his aggressor thundered. "You meant to ruin me, Guido. You have succeeded. I shall never sing here again. The stage shall know me no more. I shall disappear."

One of the managers of the room came hurrying up. Two of the valets were lurking behind him. The former recognised the two disputants and threw up his hands in consternation.

"Signor Catti!" he exclaimed. "What is all this?"

The famous tenor pointed to Ann's companion.

"You have not heard what happened at the opera?" he cried.

"We have heard nothing."

Ann leaned forward.

"Monsieur," she begged, "do not alarm yourself. The trouble is over."

"There shall be no disturbance," Signor Catti promised. "If I could have met him alone," he went on, pointing to the table, "when I left the stage tonight I would have killed him! The moment is past. What is the good?"

He sank into a chair. His face was still distorted with passion. Something very like tears dimmed his bulbous black eyes. The official drifted courteously into the background. Signor Catti was a great man, and if there had been trouble, it was obvious that a reconciliation was at hand.

"That andante passage," the distracted singer groaned; "it was marvellous! I can never attempt it again. They would jeer at me."

The man who was still seated with Ann smiled triumphantly.

"I knew that you would appreciate that," he said. "What of the long notes at the end of the phrase?"

"You held them until I thought I should have screamed," the other muttered, "and all the time the melody grew sweeter. I am ruined! I am nothing now but a shadow. No one will ever listen to me again."

"This is only one audience," the man who had drawn music down from heaven reminded him consolingly. "They will tell their story. The listeners will believe that they dreamed or that they had dined too well. They are very fortunate people. They have heard the Song of the Duke sung as no one else in the world will ever sing it."

"That is the beginning of a campaign," the other lamented. "What fault is it of mine? Am I to blame because God gave you the voice of an angel and the figure of a dwarf?"

The man addressed shivered.

"There will be no campaign," he groaned. "I have pledged my word to the authorities and those who stand behind them, those who know how I have suffered, that given this final opportunity, I would never again sing a note upon the stage."

"I don't want to seem to be butting in," Colin observed helplessly, "but can I know something of what this is all about?"

Ann rose to her feet, passed an arm through his and an arm through her late companion's. Colin had already made use of his opportunity to secure and conceal in a place of safety the villainous-looking poignard which the infuriated tenor had been brandishing.

"We are all going to have supper together—my cousin too," Ann announced. "You must know my two friends, Colin—Signor Carlo Catti, the famous tenor, and Guido, his brother. You shall be told the story and understand everything."

They moved off on their way through the rooms. Signor Catti mopped his face with a silk handkerchief and sighed with an air of content. It seemed impossible to believe that a few moments before he had been seriously contemplating the crime of fratricide.

"After I have sung," he confided, "I starve. The thought of supper is good. I will drink a glass of wine with my brother. Notwithstanding all that lies between us in the past, I shall seek for a reconciliation."

Colin led the way into the supper-room and selected a suitable table.

"And now?" he asked, having given Signor Catti carte blanche with the menu and listened to the ordering of a most amazing meal. "Perhaps I might—"

Ann interrupted him with a little pat on the hand. The strained expression had gone from her face. Nevertheless, when the sommelier made his welcome appearance, she drank her first glass of wine without a pause. The two brothers were talking vigorously together in Italian. She leaned towards Colin.

"You remember," she said, "that I once spent six months at Milan, long before we met. I had my voice tried. It was useless. I met these two then. They were both finishing their training. Guido, as you have heard, has the heavenly voice—Carlo the presence."

"It was Guido who sang the Duke's Song tonight?" Colin exclaimed with sudden enlightenment.

She nodded.

"The stage was specially arranged for him," she confided. "His heart was nearly broken when he found that there was no place where he could use that gorgeous voice of his, and three times he has fallen into a decline. Three times previously this has happened. It gives him the happiness which keeps him alive. It has happened at Covent Garden, Paris and in New York. At the Metropolitan, where they understand the finer shades of music, there was an uproar. Here they marvel, but they accept. Each time Carlo, when he hears those notes sung as he could never sing them, goes crazy. Twice he has tried to kill his brother, then for days afterwards he weeps. This time it was more than ever difficult. I came because, although we seldom meet, Carlo is always at his best with me. When I am there he restrains himself. To-night he went mad. It is over. Look at them—the best of friends. There is no one in the world who worships Guido as Carlo does, yet I suppose no one could understand the fire of jealousy that drives him almost to madness when he hears that song and knows that Guido climbs into a world which he can never enter."

Colin was holding Ann's hand tightly.

"It is the queerest story I ever heard," he acknowledged, "but, Ann, you don't know how happy it has made me to hear it."

"Wait," she begged. "To-night may be a great night. This is the real explanation of why I am here."

The brothers were seated arm in arm. Carlo rapped on the table with the handle of his knife. He was a famous man there and the maître d'hôtel hurried up.

"Supper!" Carlo demanded. "I starve."

"In five minutes the signor shall be served," the man promised. "May I be forgiven, but I heard the Duke's Song to-night. No other in the world has ever sung it in such a fashion."

Carlo indulged in a grimace. His brother pokes him in the ribs. They were human and natural as two boys.

"There was also a love story," Ann whispered, "and a misunderstanding. To-night it will be put right."

She beckoned to someone across the room. A girl who was seated alone rose from her table. She was dressed plainly in black, her black hair was brushed from her forehead, her dark-blue eyes were soft as though with coming tears. She looked at one person—one person only—at Guido. Guido stumbled to his feet. Carlo, with a curious lightninglike instinct of chivalry, kept his place.

"I have made friends," Ann explained, "with the signorina in London. She has been working very hard teaching singing. Perhaps if you ask her she will join us at supper."

"I will stay," the girl accepted, "if Guido invites me."

His voice seemed to have sunk into tremulous music.

"You mean—if Carlo invites you."

She took her place by his side, between him and Ann. She held his hand and looked into his eyes.

"It is for Guido and Guido only that I will stay. How foolish you have been all these years!"

He rose slowly to his feet. For once in his life, at any rate, he had the dignity of a great man.

"I earn a thousand a year as leader of an orchestra," he told her. "I shall never earn any more."

"And I," she confided, "give singing lessons at one guinea a lesson!"

He resumed his seat and her hand was once more in his.

"Together," he sighed peacefully, "we shall find heaven."

Carlo had ceased to listen. He was looking over his shoulder for the maître d'hôtel.

"They are long with the salad dressing," he complained impatiently.

Ann smiled across at him.

"Don't disturb yourself, dear master. Everything comes in time to the man who knows how to wait."</story>