<story title="PERCY SKIRTS THE MORASS" date="1936">
IT must have been some latent instinct of devilment lurking behind his somewhat smug demeanour which induced Percy Rooke, who had heard of that famous Bohemian resort only the night before, to lean out of the window of his car during a block in Piccadilly and instruct his chauffeur to put him down at the Café Royal. He was not in the habit of paying fortuitous visits to cocktail bars and places where artists and their like are wont to congregate, but he was at that moment a little weary of his sedate life.

He pushed open the swing doors which led into an unknown world without any visible hesitation. His first impressions were indeterminate. There was a sprinkling of smartly dressed young women engaged for the most part, with the aid of small mirrors, in dealing more or less successfully with any imperfections of their make-up. Others were leaning back in their chairs scrutinising with an air of pleased interest any chance newcomer. There was a handful of young women dressed in another fashion, the ultra-artistic outfit, mostly with a complexion of ghastly pallor to match, lips of flaming scarlet and assuming a real but not impregnable air of aloofness. The men were mostly dressed as he was, but not so well, and a few in a manner which he would never have dared to affect, with drooping collars and flopping ties. All very interesting and very much what he had expected.

A waiter relieved him of his hat and stick. A young woman, seated with an elderly man upon one of the settees which lined the room, moved her bag courteously from the adjoining table. Percy Rooke, with a bow of acknowledgment, occupied the place, demanded a whisky-and-soda from a waiter, lit a cigarette and endeavoured to cultivate the air of a man entirely at ease amongst familiar surroundings. A passer-by, obviously mistaking him for someone else, nodded, which gave him confidence. A lady opposite, with very rosy fingernails, favoured him with a tentative smile and tapped the chair by her side. He pretended not to notice and picked up a menu. The girl with the elderly companion who had moved her bag from his table leaned slightly towards him. She too smiled, but in a different fashion.

"You find that it is very much changed, this place—yes?" she asked.

He accepted the cue at once.

"Unrecognisable," he declared. "Too modern."

He shook his head in disappointment. The girl sighed. He ventured to look at her. She was apparently of any age between twenty and thirty. Her face was long and oval and her make-up, with which she had been only moderately lavish, was, at any rate, skilful. She was quietly dressed, although her small hat was set at a coquettish angle and her eyes were not empty of invitation.

"You are right," she said, and he was more than ever conscious of the pleasantness of her voice, notwithstanding its foreign accent. "I come here but rarely now. My old friends seem to have found another home and they have taken the atmosphere with them. You are perhaps an artist, monsieur?"

Percy Rooke shook his head regretfully, with the air of one who had started life with that idea, but had been driven by grim fate to the narrower channels.

"I am very fond of pictures and music," he confided, "but I am only an amateur. I am in the insurance business."

"You make good money at that—yes?" the girl asked sympathetically.

"I make a sufficient income," he replied. "You see, I am a bachelor and I have simple tastes."

She laughed softly. She had certainly very beautiful teeth.

"You must have a strong will," she said, "or the ladies you have met have not been very enterprising. Perhaps you are one who does not like my sex, monsieur?"

"There is no one admires them more than I do," he assured her bravely. "In my life, however, I meet very few."

She made a little gesture with her hand towards her companion.

"You permit that I present you to my father?" she asked. "The Count Heckerness. This gentleman's conversation has interested me very much, Father. Your name if you please, monsieur?"

Percy Rooke produced his cardcase and laid a beautifully-engraved specimen upon the table in front of her. The girl read it out and passed it on.

"Mr. Percy Rooke," she said. "Percy is a very pretty name."

The elderly gentleman rose to his feet. He was very tall, he possessed an air of undeniable distinction, and he was decidedly dirty. Even the fingernails of the hand which Percy Rooke clutched gravely needed attention.

"I am very charmed to meet you, sir," he said. "It is seldom that my daughter admits herself amused by an Englishman. I congratulate you."

He sat down, and it was perhaps by accident that his fingers as he did so pushed away an empty glass in front of him. At any rate, he provided his new acquaintance with an opportunity.

"Perhaps," the latter suggested, "I may be permitted to ask you and your daughter to join me in some refreshment?"

There was a dual and enthusiastic consent. Mademoiselle, it seemed, drank mixed vermouth; the Count preferred Kirsch.

"Vodka," he explained as the glasses were being filled, "is not good here. I drink the Kirsch, which reminds me somewhat of it. The vodka of the old days is no more."

He filled up his glass from the bottle which the waiter had left upon the table and withdrew from the conversation.

"You are, I am sure, an artist, mademoiselle," her companion ventured.

She laughed.

"People would not recognise my work as a branch of the arts, I fear," she said. "Still, I do work, and very, very hard. I come to these places for the business."

"Tell me what you do?" he begged.

"Would you really like to know?"

"I should," he assured her fervently.

"Well," she explained, "there are in my family quite a number of sisters, three brothers and two cousins. I keep a dancing-academy; that is to say, I teach dancing with the help of these others. When I am busy they take pupils or they dance with those who wish to dance for pleasure. You understand?"

"I think so," he assented with some hesitation.

"Well, you see, what might happen is like this," she explained. "You are in London alone. You would like to have dinner, you would like to dance. My name is known to you. You look up my telephone number—Countess Heckerness, 1789 Hampstead. You ring up and explain the situation. You ask if I will come and dance. Alas, I am distressed, but I am engaged for the evening; shall I send you one of my sisters or my cousin, I ask. And so it is. You have a partner, you dine pleasantly, you pay a fee, and we live. Voilá!"

"I think it is a wonderful idea," he pronounced.

She shrugged her shoulders. She laughed gaily.

"Scarcely that," she protested. "But there are a great many of us and we must live. Monsieur will pardon us now? There is a client of the establishment who has just arrived, and I would like to make an appointment with him."

A grasp of the hand from Monsieur le Comte, a subtle smile, a momentary glimpse of mademoiselle's graceful figure as she threaded her way amongst the chairs, and it was all over. Percy Rooke a few minutes later finished his drink and took his leave. He had the pleasant sense of having broken through the bondage of the level hours. He still held tightly the card which mademoiselle had thrust into his hand at the last moment. It was discreet and elegant. "La Comtesse Heckerness, 17, Rochfort Gardens," and in small letters on the other side, "Telephone No. 1789 Hampstead." The whole thing savoured of adventure.

* * * * *

Percy Rooke, as became his forty-seven years and his serious profession of insurance agent, was not a man of swift or passionate impulses. It was a week before he presented himself at 17, Rochfort Gardens and entered upon the second stage of his adventure. His first impression of his new surroundings, even as he handed his hat and umbrella to a moderately tidy but somewhat flushed serving-maid, was that the very atmosphere seemed charged with musical discords, proceeding from every corner of the house. There was jazz music to the left of him, there was jazz music to the right of him; the melody of a waltz floated down the stairs and the clanging of a one-step from somewhere in the back regions. It was a relief to be ushered into a crowded room and exchange the pandemonium of instrumental discord for the shrill chatter of human voices. His hostess rose from her place at a round table, where she had been seated behind an apparatus which seemed to him like a gigantic tea-urn, and welcomed him with outstretched hands.

"My dear Mr. Rooke!" she exclaimed. "How charming of you! We have been hoping to see you every afternoon."

"I have been looking forward to this pleasure, mademoiselle," he replied in somewhat stilted fashion.

"Can I offer you some tea?" she enquired, touching the monumental edifice in front of her.

"Thank you, no," he replied. "I take a cup of tea always at my office at four o'clock."

"Well, we have finished," the Countess told him. "I will not introduce you to everyone. You would, only forget their names. But these are all my sisters which you see at the table. I start from the left yes? That is Anna with the copper-coloured hair. You must be careful of her, Mr. Rooke. She is a nice girl, but she—I forget the word for the moment—she will flirt with you if you give her the chance. Then there is Catherine, better behaved, almost as demure as myself. And next is little Soma. It is so convenient to have one small one, because she can dance with the small men. Then here on the other side are my two brothers, George and Andrew, and my stepbrother, Nicholas."

The young women acknowledged the introduction with a murmured chorus of friendly platitudes. The young men, who were all three similarly attired in pullovers and flannel trousers, bowed with great formality.

"Now I shall take you away," his hostess continued, "and if you really intend to become a patron, I shall see how you dance and who would be your best partner . . . . The first thing we have to do is to find an empty room," she went on. "I rather fancy—"

She opened a door. A young man in tights and a girl in the scantiest of costumes were facing one another with the air of prize-fighters. A man with a violin was just starting to play. The Countess waved her hand and drew her companion back into the passage.

"We must not interrupt them," she said. "The violinist is Marko. He is a great friend of the family and oh, so marvellous! They are practising a new dance for the Palladium to-night. They are the two who always bring money to the family. I expect you have seen them advertised—Arnold and Betty, they call themselves. Betty's real name is Nadine, but alas, we Austrians are not very popular just now . . . . Hurrah! An empty room and a gramophone. Any particular choice, Mr. Rooke?"

"Just an ordinary fox-trot," be suggested. "I'm not very good, you know."

"If you were very good, it would not be worth your while to come here," she said. "If you dance badly—eh bien! We will try to make you dance better."

Mademoiselle slipped on a gramophone record, lifted her skirt a little and held out her hands. Her partner, with an air of great solemnity, lent himself to the music. For a man without any sense of rhythm or graceful freedom of the limbs he danced very correctly. The Countess patted him on the back at the conclusion of the performance.

"But you dance very well," she exclaimed. "You need one thing, and one thing only, but oh, how you need that!"

"Tell me, if you please, what it may be," he begged.

"Practice, my dear Mr. Rooke. Constant, indefatigable practice."

"I must substitute the dance for my exercises in the bathroom every morning," he suggested with heavy jocularity.

"Useless," she told him. "You must dance with a partner whom you can hold in your arms and who will move with you to the rhythm of the music that is the secret of real dancing."

"Then I must dance with you," he declared.

"You had better not let my father hear you make speeches like that," she laughed "He is so strict with all of us. He expects us to dance and earn all the money and not even to listen to a compliment. That is not possible, is it, Mr. Rooke?"

"Certainly not," he agreed.

"Shall I select one more record?"

The record was selected and danced. She led him to a divan set against the wall.

"That was even better than the first," she declared. "You will have to dance with Anna whenever I am occupied, Mr. Rooke. She has just that swaying step which will help you to move more freely. Do you understand?"

"I think so," he admitted.

"And now we must talk business," the Countess continued. "You can come here as often as you like, Mr. Rooke, on your way home from the City, and you can dance with whichever one of us is free, and you will pay each time a guinea— yes?"

"It will suit me admirably," he assented.

The Countess, who had confided to him that her name was Gertrude, was relieved. She watched with frank interest the pound and the shilling which her new client had produced from his pocket, and to save him embarrassment took it from him and slipped it into her own bag.

"Receipts are not necessary," she said. "You pay every time you come. If you take one of us out for the evening it is two guineas and we must be fetched and brought home. With my sisters perhaps a little present as well would be acceptable. I am supposed to be the head of the establishment so it is not necessary. The situation is clear to you, Mr. Percy?"

"Perfectly," he answered.

"You like us? You find it agreeable to come here?"

"Extraordinarily so," he assured her.

"Then we shall dance one more," Gertrude decided, springing lightly to her feet, "and after that if Anna is free you shall dance with her."

The evening finished in the most satisfactory fashion. The new patron, who found it was possible to obtain refreshments upon the premises, stood cocktails to a small but very thirsty crowd, augmented by the sudden arrival from the lower regions of the Count himself. It was, in Percy Rooke's own opinion as he stepped into his car, a slightly disreputable, but exceedingly agreeable afternoon.

Three weeks later, Mr. Percy Rooke sat in the private sitting-room of his cousin, the proprietress of the Cedarwood Guest-House, waiting for an interview which he had shirked and which he disliked more than anything else in life. An unfortuitous combination of circumstances seemed every moment to render that interview more distasteful. It was a sunny spring morning and a faintly stir

The great occasion had arrived and the man, as so often happens, found himself pitifully at a loss. He had his cue but he missed it.

"I do seem to have dined out a great deal lately," he murmured.

"Quite a man about town," she smiled. "However, so long as you are amused. That's the great thing in life, isn't it? Now tell me what it is you wanted to see me about."

His courage failed him completely. The few plain, dignified words which he had learnt by heart and which sounded perfectly natural when spoken in the privacy of his chamber, had gone from his mind. He suddenly ceased even to believe in the situation which had arisen. It wasn't possible that he, Percy Rooke, had been spending all these evenings dancing and whispering all sorts of amorous amenities to some other woman—a foreigner, an Austrian Countess—it was ridiculous. There was only one woman whom he had really ever cared for and there she sat waiting for him to speak. He just felt he couldn't do it.

"Grace," he faltered desperately, "it wasn't anything really. Another time, or perhaps I'll write."

"Don't be an idiot," she exclaimed, trying hard to conceal her own agitation. "If you have anything to say, say it."

"Perhaps—well!"

"Perhaps you want to make a change—to leave me?"

"You have said it," he muttered. "I couldn't. I'll have to make a move, Grace."

Now that he had said it he was stupefied.

"You are going to leave me?" she said quietly. "Is there anything wrong, anything you don't like?"

He closed his eyes.

"I am going to be married," he announced.

Then there was silence. They neither of them heard any longer the humming of the bees outside, the soft rustle of the wind in the tall elm trees. Percy was loathing the feeble spark of courage which had enabled him to say those words to her. Her cheerful world, through which she had been moving so blithely, seemed suddenly to have become air impossible place, her life until then so brimful of interests and content—a dreary wilderness.

"Why didn't you tell me before?" she asked at last.

"I wasn't sure," he answered drearily. "I didn't believe in it myself."

"When can I see her and who is she?"

Percy Rooke coughed. It was not a meeting to which he was looking forward with any pleasure, in fact the more he thought of it the less he liked it.

"She's an Austrian," he confided. "She has a great many relatives. You won't like her. You won't like them. Oh damn!"

Perhaps that was the most encouraging thing he could have said. She showed some faint signs of recovery.

"Don't be stupid," she enjoined. "Of course I must see her and her relations, and I assure you I'll do my best to like them. Austrians have been having a terrible time lately, haven't they?"

He thought of the three sisters in their cheap frocks, their ceaseless chatter, their hungry chase of life. He thought of the three young men in pullovers and slacks throughout the day and carefully preserved evening clothes at night. Young men who bowed from the middle, made flowery speeches, drank everything they were offered and borrowed half-crowns. No, there wasn't the faintest chance that she would like them.

"I'll bring Gertrude to dinner one night if I may," he proposed.

"Whenever you like," she agreed. "I can't pretend, Percy," she went on, her head turned a little away from him, "that I shall be very pleased to see her, but your happiness is the great thing and if you really care—well, that is everything. I hope you are sure about that, Percy. It's the great thing, you know."

"Of course, of course," he assented. "Well, we will see. She has a great many engagements. Perhaps one night later in the week. I'll let you know."

"I wish you looked a little more happy about it, Percy," she told him frankly.

"Haven't got used to the idea yet," he muttered. "That'll come all right."

He hurried away. She watched him wistfully, had half a mind to call him back but let him go. Perhaps there was after all a glimmering of hope.

* * * * *

Never, Percy Rooke reflected as he descended from his neat and prosperous-looking automobile, crossed the few yards of pavement, pushed open the crazily hung gate and made his way up to the front door of No. 17, Rochfort Gardens on that particular evening, had the clatter down in the basement seemed more disturbing, the pile of half emptied receptacles, fragments of vegetables and dustman's litter more hideously apparent. With the licence of a privileged client he pushed open the door and entered. There was the same crazy din of gramophones, peals of staccato laughter from the sirenlike sisters, and mingled odours of rancid tobacco-smoke and countless meals eaten in unventilated rooms. Scales seemed to fall from his eyes as he wandered round the place. In one small room he found Gertrude being bounced around by a man who had so much the appearance of a bookmaker that one glanced at him in involuntary surprise at the absence of his satchel. She was holding her head back very much in the way she affected when she danced with him. Her very beautiful eyes seemed to be asking almost the same questions. She was a little more tired, there was slightly more powder upon her cheeks, she looked a little older. The smile with which she greeted him was obviously forced.

"See you later, Percy dear," she called out. "I had to keep Mr. Bolt waiting and we have only just begun. One of my most promising pupils, too, are you not, James?"

The big man pirouetted on one foot and glanced condescendingly down at Percy.

"I'll say so," he declared. "Mind closing that door?" he went on. "I'm all in a stew and there's a regular draught coming up the stairs."

Percy Rooke accepted the hint, descended the stairs and made his way unobtrusively in the direction of the front door. One of the lanky young men, who appeared to have been waiting for him, touched him on the shoulder in friendly fashion. He was tall and well enough built, but he was an unpleasant-looking youth with overpallid complexion, suspicious-looking flaxen hair and weak eyes.

"Could I speak with you for a moment, Mr. Rooke?" he begged.

"Presently," was the hasty reply. "I have to go out. I'm coming back in half an hour."

"It is unfortunate," the young man pleaded, "as it is a matter of business."

"Yours or mine?" Percy Rooke asked with rare cynicism. "Anyway, you must excuse me for a few minutes," he added.

There was no escaping Anna, however. She was walking up and down the shabby hall waiting for him.

"I find it necessary—" he began to explain.

She cut him short, thrust her arm through his, and disregarding utterly his faint efforts at resistance, dragged him into one of the smaller rooms on the ground floor. She listened for a moment after she had closed the door.

"Here is Dad coming upstairs from the kitchen," she muttered. "Do not be scared."

She turned the key in the lock, heedless of her companion's protests.

"Mr. Rooke," she went on, "I am going to speak to you for two minutes. None of the others will let me if they can prevent it. Look at me. Am I changed?"

He studied her in puzzled fashion.

"Well, as a matter of fact," he admitted, "yes, in a way you are changed."

"You find me improved—yes?"

"Very much."

She smoothed out her really beautiful auburn hair. It was brushed tightly back from her forehead and drooped from her neck in a little chignon. It had lost the frizziness he hated and was in its way almost distinguished. She was wearing a black gown, and the make-up of weeks of various sorts seemed to have been washed from her face. She was a little pallid, perhaps, but entirely presentable.

"You like me better like this?"

"I certainly do."

"You were not happy the other night when you took me out instead of Gertrude," she said. "I could tell that by your behaviour. I have tried to make myself more what you like."

"I am sure that is very considerate of you," he admitted.

"Now listen, please," she continued. "You were taking out Gertrude to-night to the Savoy to dine and dance."

"Well?"

"Will you take me instead?"

"Does she wish it?" he asked.

"She is tired out, she is ill," Anna confided. "She supports the whole family—this sister of mine. Soon she will be in the hospital, and then what will there be left of us? If you please, Mr. Rooke. I will be as agreeable in every way as I know how. Already I have done what I could. You were to have met Gertrude at eight o'clock in the foyer of the Savoy. May I be there instead, please?"

"There was something I particularly wanted to say to Gertrude," Percy Rooke observed.

"You can say it to me," Anna told him firmly. "I am going to take over my share of the responsibility which this terrible family of ours demands."

"You will arrange it with Gertrude?"

"I promise, and I promise you this, too," she answered as she unlocked the door, the handle of which had been twice softly turned. "You may not think me attractive. You may not like to dance with me as you do with Gertrude, but you will not be ashamed of me."

"There was never any question of that, Anna," Percy Rooke assured her, with the faint flush of the unaccustomed liar in his cheeks.

It really was an unexpectedly pleasant evening. Anna, with her beautiful hair under proper control, in a simple black frock, and with scarcely any cosmetics, presented a quiet and distinguished appearance. She danced almost as well as Gertrude, and although her English was scarcely so fluent, it was sufficiently intelligible. About halfway through the evening she asked for more coffee and settled herself back in her chair. They had a divan table in the corner and she made room for him to sit nearer to her.

"I ask now a great thing," she said, "but you are a generous man."

Percy Rooke groaned inwardly. Every other one of the family was already in his debt. Now it was to be Anna.

"You wish to marry my sister Gertrude," she continued. "You know that we are in trouble. She consents. She marries you. And that thousand pounds we need to set us straight again you will pay. That is so—yes?"

"A little crudely put," he ventured, "but it is true. I am very fond of your sister, though," he added bravely, "and I think she is fond of me."

Anna shook her head vigorously.

"Oh no," she assured him. "She is not fond of you. She is fond of one person. You know Marko."

"Marko the violinist?" he exclaimed.

"Marko is an artist," Anna declared firmly. "We will not speak of him much, but he loves Gertrude and Gertrude loves him. Because of him she says 'No' to many men who would like to flirt with her. Now he breaks his heart, she breaks her heart because she must marry you."

"God bless my soul!" Percy Rooke stammered. "Why couldn't she tell me that herself?"

"Because she is honourable," was the quiet reply. "She has already had two hundred pounds of that thousand pounds. I asked you here to speak of this. I propose something."

"Well, go on," he invited.

"I have no Marko," Anna continued, patting his hand. "I am a nice girl— yes—I do what you ask. I marry you if you will. Take me instead and give the rest of the money. I will go on working if you wish. I will earn money. I do not love you yet, but if you wish to have me you can, and if you are good to me I will be good to you. There! What is it that you say, Mr. Percy?"

The bottle of liqueur brandy had been left upon the table. He helped himself.

"I'm fond of Gertrude," he confided, "but for the last few weeks I have noticed some things which have troubled me—little things, but they point. You understand?"

"You would be stupid if you had not noticed," she declared. "She loves Marko and she is in despair."

"Well, she need despair no longer," he said. "I give her up."

"You will not be too miserable?" she pleaded. "I may tell her that?"

"I will not be miserable at all," he promised.

"And you will have me instead?"

"Do you want me to?"

"I am willing," she said. "I have thought this all out. I will make you a good wife or a good companion. I am a good girl."

"Do you care for me?"

"No," she admitted. "That is the truth."

"Why not?"

"You are too old," she answered, "and you have stiff ways. I am a good girl but I am a Bohemian. Still, I will change."

"You don't need to," he told her. "I shall forget the two hundred pounds your sister has had. You shall have the whole thousand pounds to-morrow, and to tell you the truth, Anna, although you are a nice girl and I am sure a good girl, I want to marry someone else."

The sullen look which had brooded more than once during the evening upon her face slowly disappeared. She leaned back in her chair and laughed. She rocked with laughter. She swallowed some coffee.

"Give me some brandy," she begged. "Oh, I am happy! It is settled?"

"On my word of honour," he promised.

"I may wait until I find a young man of my own. You will give Gertrude up," she persisted; "and you will lend the money?"

"I will give Gertrude up," he assured her. "I shall be delighted to have you as my friend but I don't wish to marry you, and I will lend the money."

She drank off her brandy with ecstasy.

"It is a good world," she pronounced. "Gertrude will marry Marko. Our debts will be paid. I shall find for myself a husband. We dance once more—yes? Then I go home and make Gertrude happy too."

He smiled a little ruefully yet his heart was light as he rose to his feet. He deemed it perhaps in the best of taste to keep his feelings to himself.

* * * * *

Only a few evenings later the small company of the Rooke Legatees gathered together for their customary dinner. Everyone remarked upon Mrs. John Rooke's appearance. She had always been a somewhat distinguished figure, but this time she looked ten years younger.

"Something has happened," Ann declared.

"My dears," Mrs. Rooke confided. "Last time we met I was complaining. To-night I am happy. My adventure has arrived."

"Your adventure?" Ann exclaimed. "Quickly! Tell us all about it."

"Mine is, perhaps, not quite so thrilling as the amazing scrapes you others seem to get into," she confided with a smile. "But it is thrilling enough for me. I am going to marry Percy."</story>