<story title="WHO'S WHO AT THE PARTY" date="1936">
ANN, leaning forward in the boat and pulling in her line with vociferous exclamations of pleasure, was surprised at the sudden inertness of the boatman who was seated a few feet away with the helm under his arm. She glanced at him in surprise. His pale, vividly blue eyes were fixed on the summit of the rocky cliffs underneath which they were passing.

"Michael," she exclaimed. "Look! A fish!"

Mechanically but with swift fingers the boatman pulled at the few remaining yards of line, unhooked the mackerel, threw it into the bucket, rearranged the bait and dropped the lead once more into the water. Then he looked back to the summit of the towering cliffs.

"This was the very spot," he recounted softly. "This is where I did lie and see it all. I was sand-eeling. I see the big man come out of the bungalow and creep up to the other who was wandering about on the edge of the cliffs. I saw them struggling for a minute and I saw the body of one of 'em come down the cliffs there, bumping from ledge to ledge secretary-servant—who looked after him, miss," the boatman told her, "a man near upon his own age, I should say. They favoured one another so that I could never tell the one from the other. He went away only two days before. He got a passage on one of they French fishing boats that put in."

"Anyone lived in the bungalow since?" Colin Rooke enquired.

The man shook his head doubtfully.

"Sark folk are a bit peculiar that way," he confided. "We don't have much in the way of quarrels and fighting on the island and a killing like this is a thing that has scarcely ever been known. No one ain't had no liking for the bungalow. I'm fancying if it suited you the Dame would not be particular about the rent. Pretty clever of they police running the man down what did it. Did you ever read the case, sir?"

"Yes, I read it," Colin admitted.

"He would have hung sure enough, would that man, but for Michael there," the boatman went on.

"How was that?" Colin asked curiously.

"Why, when he gave his evidence," the boatman recounted, "he spoke of seeing the two sway about on the edge of the cliff, and if it was that sort of a quarrel, why, either of them might have lost his footing and there was just enough of accident about it to make it manslaughter, but the doctor he fancied there were signs of the man having been shot in the head. There warn't much left of his head but when Michael here was asked the question he said yes, he fancied he had heard a shot and then there was them in Court as had known him since he was a boy and they all told the tale that Michael was stone-deaf. They tried him in Court—fired off a revolver behind a screen and Michael he never heard it!"

"I could hear all right that night," Michael muttered. "I can hear all right now."

"Harken to 'im!" the other jeered. "It ain't sense that you could hear one night and not another. Anyway, the Jurats didn't think so. A quarrel was a likely enough affair seeing as the two had been together in business. Twenty years he got and that's enough for most men—him being over forty. Shift a little more over towards they gulls, Michael."

The man turned his helm obediently. Over his shoulder, however, he looked back at the towering cliff. For some short time his lips moved silently.

"Our second cousin twice removed, or whatever he may have been," Colin remarked, as he stood with Ann's arm through his at the edge of the grassy slope in front of the bungalow, "had an eye for beauty."

"It's too marvellous," she murmured.

Behind them was a patchwork wilderness of common still aflush with yellow gorse and deep patches of heather. Below, at a giddy distance almost a sheer fall, the sea was booming into the caves and crevices and drenching the rocks with spray—deep blue, white-crested and heavy with the swirl of the incoming tide. The odour of it, strong and sweet, came to them with an almost intoxicating twang. They stood there for a moment or two almost breathless after their climb. The gulls floated lazily about their heads. The loneliness of the place was almost disturbing. Ann looked over her shoulder with a sigh.

"It's funny, Colin, isn't it?" she observed. "I rather hate the idea of going inside that bungalow."

"It's ugly enough," he remarked carelessly. "So long as we're here, though, we must have a look inside. Let's get it over."

It was a bungalow like all other bungalows with ordinary fittings and cheap timber. It was bare of any attempt at decoration, spotlessly clean, unsuggestive, depressing. They wandered from room to room listlessly.

"I'm glad the furniture is gone," Ann shivered "One cannot picture what it was like that night."

"Not a thing left that belonged to the poor fellow," Colin observed. "That's natural enough, though. The lawyers had everything sold up—the few things there were. They went into our estate. About two hundred pounds' worth of furniture I believe there was."

They wandered into the scullery and out by the back door. Fixed close to the wall was a small zinc receptacle for rubbish. Colin, stirred by the idlest of curiosity, turned over the fragments of torn paper and cigarette-ends with his stick. Suddenly Ann pointed downwards.

"Isn't that a letter there?" she exclaimed.

"Looks like it," he admitted.

He stooped down and gingerly drew out an envelope. He rubbed it on the grass and held it up.

"It's a letter all right," he exclaimed, "and it's never been opened."

Ann leaned over his shoulder.

"It's addressed to our benefactor, too," she pointed out. "A foreign postmark. What is it?"

"Looks like Ecuador. To Mr. Desmond Rooke, The North Cliff Bungalow, Isle of Sark, Channel Islands!"

"Well, we have as much right to it as anyone else," Ann observed. "We are two of the Rooke legatees. Let's open it. I'm curious."

Colin hesitated.

"I'm not sure," he reflected. "If we sent it up to Eastman he would open it on behalf of all of us. Rather taking it upon ourselves, isn't it?"

"Don't be silly," she laughed. "It's probably only an advertisement. Come on—open it."

Colin did as he was bidden. There was an enclosure which he kept between his fingers. The letter was dated from an hotel in Quito. His tone, as he commenced to read, was only mildly interested. The note of tragedy crept into it later.


My dear Nathaniel, I hope you are well, still enjoying the beautiful island of Sark and living in the dignified seclusion which belongs to your new personality. At any rate you are your own master now and if you have bought all the books you were talking about you must be getting quite a clever fellow.
This is a marvellous country and my luck seems to have held. Knowing what a careful fellow you are I am quite sure that you have not spent the money I left you, but I have sent you another cheque on Barclays which I expect you can cash at the branch in Sark.
If I were you I should buy a boat and take to fishing. The fishermen down in the port will put you in the way of it and it should keep you amused. You know I am a rich man and you can accept the cheque without any fear of robbing me.
I rather smile as I address this letter to myself but I suppose you are still living under my honoured name. I may be coming over on business before very long but I will give you plenty of notice and you can if you like come back to me again if your health permits. That doctor chap in Harley Street seemed to me a trifle gloomy but the rest may work wonders for you.
I hope none of those swine in the City have been bothering you in any way. I made money with them but I'm sorry I ever joined up.
You can write me if you like to the correspondent of Barclays Bank here. Don't forget the agreed-upon address.
Ever yours, DESMOND ROOKE

Colin turned his head to find Ann staring up into his face with dilated eyes.

"What in God's name is the meaning of that, Colin?" she exclaimed.

"I'm hanged if I know," he replied.

He opened out the slip of paper. It was a cheque for five hundred pounds payable to Bearer and signed Desmond Rooke. The handwriting was without a doubt the same as the letter.

"There is just one thing—no, let me think it out—" Ann began.

"There's one thing," Colin interrupted grimly, "that doesn't need much thinking out."

"You mean?"

"I mean that Desmond Rooke isn't dead. He is still alive and in Ecuador."

"And what about the money we inherited?"

Colin drew a long breath. He threw open the door.

"Let's go down to that rock and sit in the sunshine," he proposed. "I'm dizzy."

They sat outside in the warm sunshine and the sparkling aromatic air. Ann was suddenly a very practical person. She took no note of the sapphire sea below or the beauty of their surroundings. She asked grim and pertinent questions.

"What shall we have to do, Colin, about the money we inherited?"

"I imagine," he admitted, "we may have to return it. In our case, remember, it won't be so bad. I haven't spent a penny of the thirty thousand pounds I got for the Abyssinian job. But what about the others? I can't believe that Aunt Grace makes anything out of that guest-house. She's lending money to the people all the time. And as for Percy, I don't imagine his business is worth much. I should think Phillip will be all right," he concluded. "Phillip is having fortnightly art sales now—cutting a great splash advertising."

"He may be doing that on his capital, I suppose," Ann observed. "I'm afraid that you and I are the only ones who really won't be hurt. What are you going to do with that five hundred pounds?"

He placed it in his pocketbook.

"Give it up to Eastman," he replied. "He can take care of it until we get to the bottom of this business. You haven't minded being a Rooke legatee, have you, Ann?"

"I've loved it," she answered. "If necessary we must help the others too. They have had a wonderful time even if they haven't been as lucky as we have."

The reception clerk at the offices of Messrs. Eastman & Pelligrew showed distinct signs of an unusual curiosity in his parchmentlike, expressionless face as he glanced at the cards which were handed to him a few mornings later. His manner, however, was suave and noncommittal.

"Sir George will see you at once," he announced. "Will you be so good as to follow me?"

This time Colin and Ann were led straight upstairs to the very dignified apartment which was the headquarters of Sir George himself. The latter rose to his feet as the clerk announced them.

"Miss Ann Rooke and Mr. Colin Rooke, sir, by appointment."

He departed, closing the door behind him. Sir George shook hands with his clients and motioned them to chairs. They looked at him curiously. This was a very different Sir George from the man, so benign and consequential, whom they remembered upon a former visit.

"Yes, yes," he muttered as though talking to himself. "I remember you both, of course. Rooke. I don't mind confessing," he went on, "that the very name gives me—er—a sensation of bewilderment."

"We have had a pretty bad shock ourselves," Colin observed.

Sir George buried his face for a moment in his hands.

"Not so bad as I have had," he groaned. "Even now I can't see my way clearly. You look like nice pleasant ordinary young people. How on earth did you, I wonder, happen to be cursed with the name of Rooke?"

"Cursed!" Ann exclaimed.

"It has done us all right up till now, sir," Colin ventured.

The lawyer rose to his feet and both his young visitors were conscious of a sense of shock. His dignified carriage had gone. He had acquired a stoop. There were faint indications of a pouch underneath his eyes. He was certainly thinner and his voice had lost that unctuous roll.

"Listen to me," he begged. "I have just drafted a letter to you two and to the others. Would you like to see a copy?"

Colin pulled a wry face.

"I expect we can guess what you have to tell us, sir. Mr. Desmond Rooke who left us our money isn't dead after all. My cousin and I have just come back from Sark," he continued, laying down the letter and cheque upon the desk. "In a rubbish heap outside the bungalow where the murdered man had been living we found this communication. Considering ourselves as legatees we opened it. You will see it is written by Mr. Rooke himself and he encloses a cheque for the man whom he had left behind to impersonate him—the man who was thrown over the cliff and buried as Desmond Rooke."

Sir George adjusted his spectacles and read the letter word by word. He examined the cheque and turned it over half a dozen times. Then he laid it a little helplessly upon his desk.

"You have had your blow softened for you," he observed.

"What do you know about our relative in Ecuador who isn't dead?" Colin asked eagerly. "And what about the man who is in prison doing twenty years for killing him?" Ann demanded.

"Well, the man killed someone or other, didn't he?" the lawyer exclaimed irritably. "He helps to complicate things, of course. Killed the wrong man, that's all he did, or the right man—I don't know which."

"Do you mean to say there's a chance that Desmond Rooke is dead after all?" Ann broke in.

"I don't know who's dead and who isn't," Sir George snapped out. "I have had so many shocks about this affair that it has seriously affected my health. If I had anyone here whom I could trust I should like to close my doors to everyone whose name even began with an R and go up to the Hebrides for a month!"

"Has Rooke, or shall I say has the corpse, been here in person?" Colin demanded.

"Maybe," Sir George assented drearily. "I have talked to someone who seems to have every right to the money—at least he would have if I didn't know him to be someone else."

The young man opened his lips to ask another question but the lawyer's expression deterred him.

"This seems to be a matter which requires a little clear reflection," he remarked instead.

Sir George's long nervous fingers were playing with the ink bottle. For a single second Colin wondered whether to dodge the threatened missile.

"About that communication we are to receive," Ann ventured smoothly.

"Don't you Rooke legatees have monthly or weekly or half-yearly dinners or something?" the lawyer asked.

"We do," Ann admitted. "At somewhat irregular intervals lately. One is due now. Would you like to come to it?"

Sir George glared at her.

"I am coming to it," he said. "The corpse, as you allude to him, insists upon being host and explaining this affair—if any mortal man can explain it. You are to be at the Pinafore Room in the Savoy Saturday night at a quarter past eight."

"That sounds better," Ann declared cheerfully.

"If he's giving us a dinner perhaps he is not going to take our money back."

"Sounds all right to me," Colin agreed. "Are you letting the others know?"

"They are receiving an official invitation," the lawyer confided. "Unofficially, kindly remember this. I am going out of town until a quarter past eight on Saturday night when I shall arrive at the Savoy Hotel. If you or any other persons bearing your name come here to ask me for explanations before then they will come on a useless errand. Thank heavens I am learning to control myself. That isn't what I should have said an hour ago!"

"Poor Sir George," Ann murmured with one of her wonderful glances. "What a shame you have been so bothered about us. Never mind, I expect it will all come right. I shouldn't wonder if you didn't get more costs out of the corpse!"

"In any case," Colin observed, "we have had a unique experience. I have never spent money before from a legacy left by a live man."

"And I have never proved the will of one or wound up his estate," Sir George remarked, a little more in his usual manner. "Now," he added, ringing the bell on his desk, "I am going to ask you to leave me. You must forgive me for having received you in somewhat informal fashion. As a matter of fact the supreme shock of all only arrived just before you came."

Ann moved a little nearer to his desk.

"You wouldn't like to tell us all about it, would you, Sir George?" she suggested.

"Go to—. Hazelton, will you show Miss Rooke and Mr. Rooke out," the lawyer enjoined, changing his voice with an effort as the door opened. "Good morning to both of you."

"Till Saturday night at a quarter past eight," Ann said with a backward glance and a wave of the hand. "I hope I sit next to you, Sir George."

"To me," Colin declared as they walked down the dusty stairs arm in arm, "things seem to be looking a trifle brighter."

* * * * *

"For the love of Mike!" Colin exclaimed in a tone of blank astonishment as he came to a standstill halfway across the little reception room. "Why, it's Mr. Bresson! What on earth are you doing here, sir?"

Mr. James J. Bresson, very spruce in his well-cut evening clothes and wearing a white gardenia in the buttonhole of his tail-coat, shook his head.

"Not so much of that Mr. Bresson, if you please, young fellow," he begged, "and if this is another of this is the sort of environment I would always choose for an explanation."

"I suppose," the mysterious host reflected, "I have made matters a trifle complicated for some of you. Never mind, we'll have the explanations over before we finish the caviare. Good health to all of us who are Rookes and to Sir George, who isn't," he went on with his dry little smile. "Never thought of meeting you in the flesh, but there it is."

Mrs. Percy Rooke suddenly paused in the act of drinking her cocktail.

"What about that poor fellow who is doing twenty years for manslaughter?" she asked.

"Well, he's getting what he deserved," her new-found relative pointed out. "He threw someone over the cliff all right, only it wasn't the man he thought."

"Grace was always a sentimentalist," Phillip Rooke declared, taking a second glass from the tray. "I'm jolly glad to see you, sir, even if you haven't walked back from the grave. What I would like to know is this. We have been called the Rooke legatees for I don't know how long, we have had dinners and drunk a silent toast to you and, damn it all, we have spent your money or a good part of it. Now—"

"If that matter is troubling any of you," the host of the gathering interrupted, "wash it out. You see those five small caskets?"

He pointed to five very attractive boxes which stood upon the table, fashioned of walnut wood and tied up with ribbon.

"One for each of you. For the legal side of it you must trust to Sir George here. He has had a paper prepared which I have signed and you will find it inside setting the matter straight. Actually I am alive. Legally I am dead. Sir George has seen to that all right. Your legacies are untouchable and, having found such a pleasant lot of relatives," he concluded, "if any of you have had bad luck with your legacies, well, we will have a chat about it after dinner."

"We haven't got to return anything?" Mr. Percy Rooke faltered incredulously.

"Not a penny, my cousin," the other assured him. "Get it well into your heads that I am still dead and you've got your legacy. By the time you have seen what a corpse can do to a spot of caviare and a drop of vodka you will understand the matter better. Sir George, what about moving in? Our friend the maître d'hôtel seems anxious."

"One more question," Ann begged. "Who was thrown into the sea?"

For a moment Desmond Rooke looked grave.

"His name was Nathaniel Watson," he confided. "He had been my secretary for years. He was an idle, pleasant, shiftless sort of creature but he had one thing which made him the most wonderful secretary in the world for me. He and I were as much alike as twin peas. I could have sent him anywhere in my place and often did. When I received the cable to go out to Ecuador we had just settled down for a few months' quiet living in Sark where I went to get away from certain complications in the City. I put it to him that he might have a call from a very angry man connected with 'Investments Limited,' all sorts of disagreeable things might happen to him until they discovered his real personality, but there was a thousand pounds for him if he liked to sit tight till I came back. I signed a will at my lawyers', leaving all the money that stood in my name at 'Investments Limited' to such legatees as could be found, and although I never thought one of that black-coated, smug little gang of swindlers would ever have had the pluck to lay a hand upon him, I told him of the risk. He only laughed at that. Very likely he realised what I knew—that he had only a year to live anyway. What you have to get into your minds now is that so far as you people are concerned he actually was Desmond Rooke and it was he who got cracked on the skull and thrown over the cliff at Sark, poor devil . . . Mrs. Rooke, your arm. Louis calls us. Caviare and vodka cannot be kept waiting. Little Ann will sit on the other side of me. In view of the glass of vodka I am going to drink I have not drunk my second cocktail. In ten minutes I shall be ready to answer any further questions."

They trooped into the dining-room. The usual wonderful staff of perfectly-trained servants, not one too many or one too few, were waiting for them. The chairs were comfortable, the roses were fresh and sweet and beautifully arranged, the caviare arrived as though by magic and the vodka came from the cellars where it had reposed for forty years. Mr. Percy Rooke was the first to voice the general sentiment.

"I accept our benefactor's story," he said, raising the glass of vodka to his lips. "To our friend and host—the corpse!"

The feeling that this was some fantastic dream was gradually fading away. They had drawn out the contents of their boxes and read the few brief words transmuting their legacy into a deed of gift. With the return of their courage the questions commenced. With his first glass of champagne Sir George felt his head clearer.

"Look here, Mr. Desmond Rooke," he said, "you hadn't any idea that one of those fellows from 'Investments Limited' would go so far as to murder you just to keep the money in the firm?"

"Not I," the other replied. "I shouldn't have thought one of them would have had the pluck."

"Then why," Sir George asked, "did you make that will leaving your money specifically to your family connections?"

"A cunning question, Sir George," his client admitted as he too sampled the champagne approvingly. "I did it for this reason. Nathaniel was a sick man. Before we left London I took him to a specialist who called me back into the room for a word or two after he had cheered up his patient with a few platitudes. He told me that the man had valvular disease of the heart in a very advanced stage and could not live a year. Now you are going to call me a very hardhearted opportunist;" he went on, "and perhaps I was, but I did no one any harm. I have done some big deals in my life under the name of Bresson and a few under the name of Rooke, and whereas I have always come out on top as Bresson I made some enemies over two of my Rooke deals, and if a fellow whose name was believed to be Desmond Rooke had to die, it gave me a fresh start in several countries where I was not popular. So you see, although I didn't know that Nathaniel stood a chance of being thrown over the cliff, I did know that he would be a dead man in a year."

Sir George drank another glass of champagne. His head felt clearer still.

"I must confess," he declared, "I cannot see that you did anyone any harm by leaving your name upon a tombstone in Sark churchyard. The relatives and friends of the poor fellow who does lie there have been made comfortable for the rest of their days. You yourself, Mr. Desmond Rooke, prevented one of those many fortunes you seem to have accumulated from being snatched away by a company of City sharks, and the money which came instead to our friends here present to-night doesn't seem to have been without its good results."

There was a murmured chorus of agreement rising to enthusiasm. Their host held out his glass to the sommelier and as soon as it was full rose to his feet.

"Ladies and gentlemen," he said, "the only regret I feel at parting with my own name and continuing my affairs in life as Mr. James J. Bresson is that I must nominally discard an attractive company of relatives. Never mind. Sometimes friends are better than relatives. I drink to the Rooke legatees. Sir George, I am sure, will join with me. I drink long life and happiness to you who have been known as the Rooke legatees and, without making any rash promises —Ann, my dear, you haven't a sister up your sleeve?"

She shook her head laughingly.

"My celibacy being then assured," the speaker concluded, "I will venture to drop a slight hint that someday you may have reason to call yourselves the Bresson legatees."

Tumult and good spirits, a kiss from Ann, a handshake from all the men. Bresson was on his feet again.

"I hear from Sir George," he said, "that even on the day you received my legacies and you adopted the name of the Rooke Legatees you decided upon an adventurous life. Of one of our young friend Colin's adventures I know already and it was undertaken quite in the proper spirit. Now let us pass our time—we have a lengthy meal to go through and a good many magnums of this wine to finish—let us pass our time listening to an account of your various enterprises. This feast shall be a sort of Decameron. I will hear what each of you has done with your legacy. Mrs. Percy—you seem the quietest."

She smiled.

"Before I had the money," she confided, "I let lodgings and found it very hard work to live. Afterwards I opened a beautiful guest-house in Hampstead and I married Percy."

The rest of the adventures took longer in the recounting. Even their lengthy dinner was drawing towards its close. Coffee was on the table and brandy had been served before Colin wound up by telling them with great skill of words and judicious camouflage the story of his night on the mountains of South Abyssinia. The hour came for farewell. Mr. Bresson had the last word.

"My young friend, Colin," he said, "has been trying to persuade me to tell you all some of my recent adventures. It is, I am sorry to say, a little too early for me to tell you of some very interesting episodes in which I have played a part within the last few years but instead I will, if you like, make you a promise. Let me join you in twelve months' time at one of your friendly dinners and I will tell you of my year's work. I have great schemes on hand with great people. I shall have made or lost millions before we meet again and in two cases, at least, I shall carry my life in my hands. As my many times removed young cousin, who knows more about me than any of you, will tell you, for as a professional journalist he is often behind the scenes, I have been besieged by requests to grant interviews on various of the greater happenings of my life. I have always refused, but I promise you this—next time we meet, if you ask me to join that dinner, we will lock the doors and I will tell you where I have been and what I have been doing. The stage is already set for great events in three continents of the world. For years I have been called the mystery man of finance and the mystery man of armaments. I suppose this is because I can always produce an unlimited amount of arms and munitions on request or credits as great as any banking house in the world can manipulate. I will tell you about these the next time we meet."

A man came hurrying in bearing a coat and hat. Another secretarial-looking person presented himself.

"The plane will be ready to start in half an hour, Mr. Bresson," he announced. "If you are late in Vienna you will find it difficult to make your connections."

It was a matter of seconds. Mr. Bresson dropped a box of cigarettes into his pocket. Once more he brushed Ann's cheek lightly with his lips.

"Twelve months to-night," he called out. "Six stories—every one of them an epic."

He made a graceful little gesture of adieu and was gone.</story>