<story title="ANN JOINS THE CLUB" date="1936">
A FORTUITOUS meeting in the Strand, opposite the attractive entrance to the Milan, led to Phillip Rooke's hospitable invitation.

"What about a spot of lunch, Colin?"

The younger man hesitated.

"I half promised to turn up at the Club."

His uncle took him by the arm. The rest followed as a matter of course. In two minutes they were drinking Dry Martinis in the grillroom lounge.

"What's wrong with you, young fellow?" the prospective host demanded bluntly.

Colin accepted a cigarette gloomily.

"It's Ann," he confided.

"What about her?"

"She won't marry me."

"What do you mean?" Phillip Rooke demanded. "She hasn't refused you?"

"No, not exactly that. She simply won't decide anything. She won't even let me announce that we are engaged."

"Give any reason—Is there anyone else do you think?"

"I don't think so," Colin acknowledged. "Seems to me the trouble with her is that she has got this sort of craving for adventure into her blood. I was foolish enough to introduce her to Deanes Seymour one day, and he told her about the unofficial staff of young women they employ sometimes. She is aching to take something of that sort on."

"Well, it wouldn't do her any harm, would it?" Phillip queried.

"Not if she were content with the small things," Colin agreed, "but she isn't. They wanted a few unofficial people to mix with the crowds in some of the big stores. Ann wouldn't take that on. She's crazy about this kidnapping business and this last affair, Lady May Chester's daughter, you know, made her furious. If she gets mixed up in an affair of that sort there is no telling what might not happen. I had a narrow shave myself as you know, just through making a few enquiries in a place Seymour can't visit himself."

Phillip Rooke paid for the cocktails and led his nephew into the grillroom.

"I should talk plainly to your pal Seymour, if I were you, Colin," he suggested. "I don't think they ought to let an amateur go meddling in a serious job like that."

"You would think not," Colin agreed. "All the same, they are pretty unscrupulous, these fellows, when they see a chance of real outside help . . . . Good God!"

Colin half rose to his feet. There was something distinctly alarming in his expression. His uncle caught hold of his wrist and forced him back into his chair.

"Don't be an ass; Colin," he said firmly. "What's the matter with you?"

Colin's face was dark with anger. He made an effort at self-restraint, however.

"Ann! Over there," he indicated with a little movement of the head, "sitting in the corner with that dirty blackguard from the Hobgoblin Club."

Phillip Rooke returned Ann's pleasant but rather startled salute and permitted himself a glance at her companion.

"Well, you don't have to be jealous of a fellow like that, Colin," he remarked.

The young man was still furiously angry.

"But I object to Ann being seen about with such a person at all," he declared warmly.

"Do you know who he is?"

"I know quite enough," was the angry reply. "He is a sort of tout of the Hobgoblin Club. He is better dressed now than when I saw him last, but there is no mistaking the fellow."

"You don't know his name, then?"

"It won't be long before I do. Waiter, get me a chasseur, a sheet of notepaper and an envelope."

"Certainly, sir."

"Of course," his companion observed, "I can't help your making any sort of an ass of yourself, Colin, but do remember that you are my guest. I don't want to be involved in any silly business."

"I want to know that fellow's name," Colin said sullenly.

"You don't need to get up from the table for that," his uncle replied. "I will tell it you now. It's Regnier—Sir Walter Regnier."

"God bless my soul!" Colin exclaimed. "You're right. I've seen the fellow's pictures in the paper."

"Anyway, that lets Ann out," Phillip Rooke insisted. "There are very few girls would refuse a luncheon with Walter Regnier."

"I don't see why," the young man protested. "He's a bad lot."

"Perhaps so," Phillip agreed. "On the other hand he is a millionaire; and although he may be a sort of degenerate he comes from a good family, and he has never actually been in trouble."

"He is looking for it now," the other rejoined.

The maître d'hôtel, who sensed trouble at the table, filled their glasses with wine. Phillip caught Ann's eye and raised his glass; Colin perforce followed suit. Ann waved her hand.

"Keep anything you have to say to Ann until you see her alone," Phillip begged.

But Colin made no promise.

Regnier smiled as he watched the interchange of civilities. It was scarcely a pleasant smile, but then the man's expression scarcely lent itself to such amenities.

"A disappointed suitor?" he asked.

"Not so much disappointed," Ann replied coldly. "He is a distant cousin whom I shall probably marry one day."

"If that is the case you had better give him a word of good advice," her host said.

"What sort of advice?"

"Tell him to stick to his journalism and stop playing amateur sleuth. He very nearly got into serious trouble the other night."

"How do you know about that?" Ann asked.

"Because I am one of those, too, for whom crime has a sort of inordinate fascination," he told her. "I am all the time hovering on the outskirts of it. The only difference between your young cousin and myself is that whereas his sympathies seem usually to be with the police, mine are generally with the criminal."

Ann, despite herself, was fascinated.

"How can you say such things?" she exclaimed. "Because I feel them," he answered coolly. "I haven't the reputation of a saint, as you would find out if you knew much about me."

"I can see quite clearly," Ann declared, "that I ought not to have lunched with you."

He looked at her quizzingly, with a little contraction of the lines at the sides of his eyes.

"Of course you ought not," he agreed. "It isn't good for any girl's reputation to be seen with me. You happen to be an independent young woman though, brought up in the ways of respectability, and you wanted to see what one of the real black sheep was like."

"Well, I haven't succeeded, have I?" she asked good-humouredly.

"Well, you are scarcely likely to in the grillroom of the Milan," he reminded her.

"Where do you suggest then would be a more suitable place for you to talk to me about crime with the lid off?"

She shivered a little as she met his full gaze. He was a man of sallow complexion and with curiously set, extremely bright dark eyes—eyes empty of any manner of humanity or kindness, but brilliant with intelligence. The deeply engraven lines of his face, with the exception of the telltale droop from the upper lips, were not necessarily the lines of dissipation. It was a worn, almost tired face, but it might well have been the face of a man in whom the fires of life still burned intensely.

"Chez-vous ou chez-moi?" he quoted. "That is to say, in your I am sure very ladylike apartments or at a certain famous club of which I am a member and which, according to some people, is a very hotbed of sin, the Hobgoblin?"

"I love the name," she observed, "and I wouldn't dare to ask you to my rooms."

"Then you must dine with me at the Hobgoblin Club," he invited. "You won't find the telephone number in the book, and the Club itself is in a backwater between Soho and Regent Street. Nice people do not go there. There is no printed book of members. It is a haunt of criminals of every description. It is the only club in London that I know of which has private rooms. You can scarcely be seen entering or leaving the place without losing your reputation."

"Shall we say half-past eight next Wednesday?"

"That would suit me admirably," he replied, making a small note in the diary which he had drawn out of his waistcoat pocket.

"Shall I meet any other criminals?" she asked.

"I shall keep you entirely to myself," he assured her.

He glanced at his watch and paid the bill.

"I regret to say that I must now leave you," he went on. "You will permit me to escort you to the door? I have to see the five o'clock race at Sandown. I have a mare running there whose form I have kept secret from the bookies and the public. She's being ridden by a jockey who has been in prison twice and will find himself there again if he fails to win this race. She will start at twenty to one, and if you promise not to put more than ten pounds on I will tell you her name."

"I promise," Ann agreed.

"'The Comet,'" he told her, as they rose to their feet. "You will forgive my hurrying?"

"You can leave me at the table with my relatives if you will," she begged.

A few yards from the table she nodded her farewell. Regnier accepted the hint and without waiting for introductions passed on towards the door.

* * * * *

Inspector Deanes Seymour faced a very indignant young man later that afternoon when Colin was shown into his private room at Scotland Yard. The interview led to what practically amounted to an ultimatum. The inspector closed it in somewhat summary fashion.

"Look here, Rooke," he said. "If you weren't a pal you would have been in the street before now. Listen to reason if you can. It is true that you have introduced me to Miss Ann Rooke. Some three weeks after that introduction she came here and asked for amateur employment. I had no opening and told her so. Last week she came again. By the merest chance she seems to have stumbled against something that might turn out to be a clue in the Chester case."

"She never told me that," Colin muttered.

"She would have been a fool if she had," was the composed reply. "The clue was a very difficult one for us to handle. I will tell you as much as that. She proposed her own scheme and it was a damned good one. I am doing as much to save her running into any sort of danger as I should if it were one of the Royal family under my charge, but I have got to make use of what she brought me and in my own way. Remember what I have just told you, Rooke. She is a clever girl and a brave one, and if she can bring this thing off there would be millions of people in the country who would be grateful to her. I'll protect her, Rooke, if it costs me my job. I can't say more."

"You can't let me in on it?" Colin begged wistfully.

"There's no place for you, old chap," Seymour assured him. "Remember, the odds are that nothing will happen at all. If the best happens you will be a proud man, even if only we three ever know about it, and the worst is not worth thinking about. I'll look after that."

Colin held out his hand.

"You can't say more, Seymour," he admitted. "I don't mind telling you that she's forbidden me to go near her for a week."

"And at the end of that week," his friend said, with an encouraging smile, "she will probably give you your reward."

* * * * *

Ann paused to take breath as the sliding doors, which had opened with almost miraculous swiftness before her, revealed an utterly unsuspected prospect. She had passed through a shabby anteroom, along a short, dimly-lit passage into what seemed to be the very heart of luxury. Her feet sank into a thick Oriental carpet, the modern lighting effects of the place revealed dark green walls on which were sketches and wonderful paintings in the most chic French style. The heavy curtains at the farther end permitted glimpses of a still larger room and a bar of dark oak. In front of the bar was a row of armchairs set upon pedestals, and behind the shining counter three very capable young men in linen suits. There were a dozen men and women drinking cocktails and talking at a round table on her right. Ann's host, who seemed to have appeared from nowhere, greeted her with a low bow.

"I am flattered by your punctuality, Miss Rooke," he said.

"But why all this mystery?" she asked smiling. "A street which I have never been in and which I thought was leading me into Slumland, a dingy front door, anterooms which might have belonged to a temperance hotel, and now—this!"

He laughed softly.

"We disguise ourselves," he confided. "Believe me, we have a reason for everything we do. Crime does not flourish in the open light of day."

A handsome woman with a very familiar face turned from the round table.

"If you are going to talk about crime, Walter," she said, "come and join us. You will be losing members soon, you know, if you persist in being so hideously respectable."

Regnier sighed.

"So long as your grace does not desert us," he murmured.

The lady repeated her invitation. A small, dark man rose from his place by her side to make room for Ann. Regnier shook his head.

"If we may be excused," he begged. "I have a business affair with this young lady and we are dining early. . . ."

"So you have Duchesses amongst your criminals here," Ann remarked, as her companion led her towards the bar.

"Duchesses and worse," he admitted. "We have several Princesses, and a Grand Duke is one of the blackest of our sheep. On the other hand, the lady sitting on the stool there has served three years imprisonment for shooting her lover. If the trial had been in England it would probably have been ten . . . . What can I offer you in the way of a cocktail?"

"A Dry Martini, if you please," Ann replied.

They took a small table in a recess, which procured for them a certain amount of isolation. Ann looked around her in genuine surprise.

"I expected to receive shocks here," she remarked, "but surely that little man who has just come in why, I see his picture in the paper every day."

Regnier nodded indifferently.

"Yes, that is Rowland Margetson," he confided. "The jury found him 'not guilty' or he would have been in prison to-night."

"Your cocktails are wonderful," she told him, precipitately abandoning the conversation.

"We try to make everything the best of its sort," he assured her. "Sometimes it is difficult. Would you be shocked if I told you I had ordered our dinner in a private room?"

"Why should I be shocked?" she answered. "You will be able to tell me more about this business of crime."

He looked at her keenly for a moment through slightly narrowed eyelids.

"Sometimes you puzzle me," he confessed. "I should hate to think I was disappointed and that you were really one of these ingenuous young women who play at innocence and think they can get away with anything. You are in the home of vice remember. There isn't an altogether honest man in this room, except, perhaps, my three barmen. Are you honest, Fred?" he went on, addressing the man who had served them.

"We have to be here, Sir Walter," the man replied, "considering there are so many millionaires amongst the members and a great many—you will excuse me, sir—of whose honesty there has been a certain amount of question at the Law Courts—I never served in a club where the members were so careful about their change."

"I am surprised at that," Ann murmured.

"It is quite true, madam," the man went on. "Lord Grantham, who was one of the directors charged in that big shipping case last year—they say he made a million out of the public—and he only got two months—he's always complaining that cocktails ought to come down in price."

"If they are all as good as these," Ann declared, "I think you should advance them."

"I hope I may take that as a hint," Regnier observed.

"You may, if you are sure I am not being too expensive a guest," she laughed.

Regnier declined a second cocktail but smoked a cigarette. Then he excused himself for a moment while he spoke to three men who had just come in.

"I was afraid this was going to be altogether a society evening," he observed when he came back. "Those three belong to the other world though all right."

"Tell me about them," she begged. "They looked such dears."

"The man with the monocle, Harrison Barr," he confided, "is the man in that manslaughter case down at Brighton. He is out on bail. The man he is talking to, Sam Lennox, would have been doing time for blackmail but his prosecutor died during the trial. The other fellow is a Greek, a Captain Ph?bus. He was sitting next to the Duchess when we came in."

"What a heavenly place!" Ann declared with a little sigh of contentment.

A maître d'hôtel approached them and respectfully announced the service of dinner, and Regnier led the way through several beautifully furnished reception-rooms, at present unoccupied, and along a passage towards an automatic lift. They ascended to the third floor. A bowing waiter met them in the corridor and threw open the door of a small dining-room, very chic and elegant, with doors opening on the other side of it. A table laid for two stood in the middle of the room. There were pink orchids in a Sèvres vase upon the table, caviare already upon their plates, with iced vodka in long thin glasses.

"I hope you won't refuse my vodka," Regnier remarked. "It's genuine and quite scarce."

"I am inclined to regret the second cocktail," Ann sighed as she sipped it.

"I'll let you off with just a thimbleful," he promised.

"I am going to ask to be let off with quite a small dinner, too," she said, leaning back in her chair and looking round with interest. "I have to sup out at eleven."

He looked at her curiously. The lines round his mouth deepened a little, but it was scarcely a smile. He seemed to have developed the gift of silence.

"My guests," he said quietly, "are not always in such a hurry."

"Ah, but I am not an ordinary guest," she reminded him.

"I should like to know why you came," he meditated.

The waiter had left the room in search of the next course. She answered him quite frankly and without embarrassment.

"Why, because I wanted to! Haven't you gathered by now that I love the unusual in life? I love adventures. This is an adventure."

"I suppose," he went on thoughtfully, "you are not entirely the ingénue you would have me believe. You have an idea as to what it may mean to dine alone with a man in a private room—a man of extraordinarily bad character—in a club which is known as a nest of criminals?"

"I suppose I do," she replied. "On the other hand, when the girl is a girl of extraordinarily good character, what does it matter?"

He balanced a fork on his long, delicate forefinger.

"Well," he observed, "that is one way of looking at it."

"It seems to me to be the only sane way," she persisted. "I think men love to feel that they are terrifying. You don't terrify me in the least, Sir Walter."

"Humiliating," he murmured.

"Not at all," she laughed gaily. "I know perfectly well that I shall not need to be melodramatic. Even those doors, which connect with a suite or something, I suppose, leave me unafraid."

"It is beginning to occur to me," he said as he nodded approval at the dish which the maître d'hôtel had presented to him, "that you would be a very desirable member of this club if you could be induced to humour our criminal proclivities."

"You would find me very tolerant," she confided, looking straight across at him, "of every crime but one."

"And that?" he asked.

She waited until the man had left the room.

"Kidnapping children," she said.

He set down the glass of wine which he had just raised to his lips.

"You are thinking of the Chester case?" he asked politely. "It seems to have created a great deal of unnecessary commotion."

"I am interested in the Chester case," she admitted. "That is why I am dining here with you tonight."

There was a curious and a profound silence. Not by a twitch of the eyelids had he shown any surprise or emotion at her speech. He was looking at her fixedly. Even with her perfect nerves the silence seemed to have become uncanny. She looked round the room and discovered the reason.

"How modern!" she observed. "No windows, no ventilation, sterilised air! What a dangerous apartment this is in which you choose to entertain your guests, Sir Walter!"

"That is why I admired your courage so much when you came," he remarked. "I am beginning to understand you a little better, Miss Rooke."

"You will understand me better still when I tell you of a slight happening which took place a week or ten days ago," she recounted, "the day, by the by, when the Chester child disappeared. I was driving, my car along a rather lonely byway in Surrey when something came fluttering down from the sky in front of me. I couldn't imagine what it was. I saw that it was coming down in little circles from a beautiful, small, smoothly running aeroplane which was mounting rapidly. I drew up my car and waited. Soon I saw that it was a book. It fell with a plop in the field at the side of the road. The aeroplane was now almost out of sight. I entered the field and picked up the book . . . . One moment, if you please, this chicken is too delicious."

She continued her dinner for a moment or two in silence. Then she took a sip of her wine.

"The book was a child's picture book," she went on, leaning back in her place, "but a child's picture book de luxe. Its illustrations were by Rackham and it struck me that the letterpress might almost have been one of those private ones, the type was so exquisitely clear. I looked it through and was fascinated. I took the book back with me to London. That night the evening papers were blazing the news of little Pamela Chester's kidnapping."

Once more she paused, this time because the maître d'hôtel had slipped into the room and filled the glasses. Even after he had withdrawn she was in no hurry, and Regnier sat, a figure of stone, without speech or movement of a single muscle.

"I think from the first thirty seconds," she continued, "I have connected in my mind the discovery of that book and the abduction of the Chester child. Chester, as we all very well know, is a millionaire. The picture book which had fluttered into the field by my side was the picture book of a millionaire's child. The hour was about one hour after the child had been missed by her governess in Bond Street. I went to the one or two bookshops in London which were likely to have sold such a production, and the third I called at recognised it at once. It had been sold across the counter of their establishment in Piccadilly about a week before and, despatched with two others to the address of the buyer."

Again a brief pause, again that sphinxlike silence of her host. Not in the least discomposed, Ann presently continued.

"The number of the aeroplane," she said, "was very distinctly visible, but two of the figures seemed to me to be curiously drawn. I made a note of them and I got a friend of mine who understands aeroplanes to make enquiries. With the exception of those two figures, a seven or a nine and a five or a three, which lent themselves easily to alteration, the aeroplane was easily identified. It was a luxury Moth delivered some three weeks ago to the same person who was the purchaser of the picture books. At this stage of my investigations I sought the advice of a friend at Scotland Yard."

"I cannot tell you," Regnier said, speaking at last, "how interesting I find your narrative. One thing, however, you have omitted. The name of the purchaser of the Moth and the picture books."

"It is a name which has never yet passed my lips," Ann said. "I kept it to myself for certain reasons. I shall tell it to you for other reasons. It was a Captain Ph "Eventually I sought an interview with the Chesters."

"That would seem very discreet," Regnier murmured.

"Their attitude," Ann proceeded, "was exactly what I had imagined. Revenge, justice, punishment, although no criminal in the world deserves hounding out of it as much as a kidnapper, had no place in their minds. They wanted their daughter. They had no other thought but that."

"And Scotland Yard?"

"You must remember," Ann went on, "the official at Scotland Yard whose advice I sought was not a person in the highest authority, neither did I disclose to him all I knew. I asked him a plain question, and that was whether he thought that the prosecution of the criminals could be safely accomplished without the slightest risk to the child. He pointed out to me that I imposed upon him a tremendous responsibility, which he refused to shoulder. From a friend he turned into an official. He told me that my duty was to report myself to the Chief Commissioner. He could give no guarantee as to the safety of the child. The chief business of the police was to bring the criminal to justice. He left it at that."

"You are a marvellously wise young woman, Miss Ann Rooke. So you came to me, whom they call the father of the Hobgoblin Club?"

"So I came to you."

Regnier toyed with his cigarette for a moment and then lit it.

"Let me be sure," he said, "that I have this matter properly envisaged. Your friend at Scotland Yard is aware that you could trace the owner of the Moth aeroplane, but you have not yet given him its number?"

"Precisely," Ann agreed.

"He knows that you are aware of the name of the purchaser of the child's picture book which fell from the aeroplane?"

"Yes."

"But you have not shared your knowledge with him?" he asked.

"I have not."

"Excellent. Who knows that you are dining tonight with me?"

"No one."

There was a glitter in his eyes for a moment. He pushed the bowl of roses which stood between them on one side. He looked straight into her eyes.

"There is no one, then, in the world who knows that you dine at the Hobgoblin Club to-night?"

"Not a soul."

Regnier leaned back in his chair. One searched in vain for a smile upon his face, and yet one felt that it was there. For those few moments he was perhaps at his best.

"You have made your advances in this matter, Miss Rooke," he said, "with almost uncanny skill. As a distinguished ancestor of mine would have remarked, you have created an amazing and intriguing situation. I will relieve you of further banalities as to the danger of your position. Your genius told you from the first that you were running no risk. I cannot always control my subordinates, but to-night you have saved the parents their child and the father his banking account, for what that is worth. I propose that you forget the name of the purchaser of the storybook. I propose also that you forget the number of the Moth aeroplane."

"And in return?" she asked softly.

He glanced lazily at his watch.

"The child will arrive, in the best of health I can assure you, at Durham House within an hour. There will be no question of a ransom."

"And this poor caged bird?" Ann asked, rising to her feet.

"Can flutter her wings whither she will," Regnier replied, rising with a little bow, moving towards the door and throwing it open. "You will allow me to call you a taxicab? I presume that my bargain is accepted?"

"A gentleman's agreement?" she asked.

"A gentleman's agreement," he replied, bowing over her finger-tips as they passed out to the corridor.

There were many gay parties in the dining-room downstairs and from the bar came the sound of a hubbub of voices. They passed to the exit by a different route.

"There is only one more thing to add, Miss Ann Rooke," Regnier concluded as the taxicab, for which the commissionaire had whistled, rolled up. "By your criminal suppression of knowledge, which should have at once been communicated to the police, regardless of the possible results, you have qualified for membership of the Hobgoblin Club. It will give me great pleasure to propose you myself."

"I shall be delighted," she told him smiling, "to become a member. Will you tell the driver to take me to the Embassy in Bond Street? A charming dinner, Sir Walter."

"A very modest meal," he answered. "You see I remembered your supper afterwards."

* * * * *

At ten-thirty that evening the telephone by the side of which Colin had been seated for the last hour rang. He seized the receiver and an unfamiliar voice spoke.

"Is that Mr. Colin Rooke?"

"Speaking."

"This is the Embassy Club, sir. A telephone message has been waiting for you for some time. Our instructions were to ring you up at precisely half-past ten and tell you its contents."

"Go ahead," Colin demanded.

There was a moment's pause, then the man's voice again.

"'Expect you here to supper at eleven o'clock. Please take small table on right, and remember that for celebrations I prefer Clicquot.' We have reserved the table, sir," the man concluded. "Louis has put a bottle of the '19 Clicquot in the ice."

"I shall be round in twenty minutes," was Colin's breathless response— rather an indistinct response . . . .

They met in the broad covered arcade leading into the Club. Her feet seemed scarcely to touch the covered pavement, the light he prayed for was in her eyes. She came with perfect naturalness into that brief but perfect embrace, then she thrust her hand under his arm.

"I have had my adventure," she told him. "I am happy."

"And the greater one?" he asked fervently.

"I am ready for that."

Just before they left the Club two hours later, flushed with dancing and idiotically happy, the suave maître d'hôtel, who had been hurrying about in every direction, paused at their table.

"Great news for us all to-night, sir," he announced. "I have just received a telephone message. The Chester child was returned to her parents tonight unharmed, and in perfect health. Her ladyship has so many friends here that I am busy spreading the good news."

He hurried off. Ann and Colin raised their glasses.

"To your first exploit, dearest," he whispered.

Ann's glass remained at her lips a few seconds longer. Perhaps she added a silent toast of her own.</story>