<story title="The Floating Storekeeper" date="1915">
He is found on nearly all the navigable rivers of Australia—the smart, handy, genial person who is a ship's captain, storekeeper, wood-cutter, and other things rolled into one. . . . Naturally, he is not the soft-handed, pale faced sort of shopman that one is accustomed to meet behind the drapery counter in town, but a roughened, sun-browned, vigorous man of business, who is equally at home on land and water, in the city or in the bush. He lives on his ship—his floating palace—but as he ties up at night, and between times at depots where there is any trade to be done, also when he wants a fresh supply of wood for stoking purposes, he spends a good deal of time on land. When he is doing well he buys a considerable portion of his fuel at the waterside, but otherwise, when his supply is low, he ties up adjacent to a good timber patch, and he and the mate shoulder axes and cut their own wood, which they also lump on board. When steaming along between depots he has a gun beside him for ducks, and in the warm evenings he smokes his pipe on deck whilst a fishing line dangles over the side. He likes the streams where the towns are few, where there are shearing sheds, sugar mills, timber-getters' camps, wood-cutters, and other groups of workers on the waterfront. These centres constitute his ports, and, calling regularly once a week or so, customers come down from near and far to do their shopping on board. Regularity is not always possible on some of the rivers, such as the Darling, in which sufficient depth of water cannot be depended on for any length of time except for the smaller craft.

Trade and Profit.

Floating stores range in size from small motor launches to three-decked steamers. The former are satisfied with a store profit of about £6 a week, whilst the latter require £20, half of which is swallowed up in expenses. On the Darling the trade is as irregular as the trips, though the average through the year is maintained. In dry summers work is slack, and a good many men, unable to travel out back, camp along the banks. A temporary stoppage of carrying on the roads creates a demand on the travelling store, not only for groceries and soft goods, but for potatoes and fodder, which the steamers carry stacked on the lower decks. The wool season and fruit harvesting bring other crowds of men within reach. Navigation is slow and difficult at such periods when the water is low, and here and there the big boats, heavily laden on the up trip, stick on a mud bank, or suffer damage on a snag. The small craft, travelling quickly up and down, do good business in these times. Several boats of various sizes ply on this long river, and nearly all of them do well, in spite of many towns dotted along the winding shores.

A Three-Decker.

One familiar three-decker was the joint property of two brothers, both married men, whose wives and children lived on board. This was a paddle steamer, which had a spacious promenade around the wheelhouse on the upper deck. In a limited way it was a universal provider; everything from a packet of pins to household furniture could be purchased there. If there was something required that was not on board, it could be ordered, and was brought up on the next trip—when the next trip would be depended on the vagaries of the river. The store was well fitted up with shelves, glass cases, and lockers, and everything was displayed in proper departments, as in a town store. Comparatively, of course, the space was small, but the emporium was neat and compact—an object-lesson to the slovenly in the utilisation of every available inch. It did not permit of a rush to the bargain counters. On a very busy day some of the customers would have to wait their turn outside the store. The women assisted both in the grocery and drapery departments, and attended to the washing, cooking, and general household duties when the store was steaming from port to port, or during the slack time of the day. Their assistance was seldom required in the morning, as most of the business was done in the afternoon and evening.

A Pleasant Life.

Whilst smaller craft exploited the long bends to Bourke and Walgett, this boat plied regularly between Wentworth and Wilcannia. Her arrival at the usual depots was heralded by circulars sent through the post to leading customers, or to amateur bill stickers in the localities who would see that they were conspicuously displayed. A plug of tobacco or an occasional pipe would defray the cost. The boat travelled only in day-time, calling at every hamlet, town, and industrial centre, also at the isolated homesteads, where it was particularly a great convenience to residents. At night the boat was tied up to the bank, at a business port if possible, but anywhere at all if that were unreachable when night closed in. Wherever they touched at the children found recreation ashore. Frequently through the day there were opportunities for landing, and with the ever-changing scenery, passing up and down, constant intercourse with the settlers, and little adventures and excitements on land and river, for the women and youngsters it was a very pleasant life. For the men, too, it was most agreeable. They had to work hard, but it was profitable work.

On the Coastal Rivers.

The coastal rivers have a good farming population, and though there are little steamers plying regularly up and down every day, taking produce from the farms and delivering goods from town stores, there is still a good trade for the hawker's boat or the floating store. On the Richmond an old paddle-boat called the Keystone traded for years when the river banks were covered with thick scrub. Houses were scattered, and still, at a timber-getting depot, her takings not uncommonly amounted to £50 for a Saturday afternoon. She stopped only at well-known centres, such as villages, saw mills, timber camps, schools, and squattage homesteads. She made a trip every week, stopping over Saturday and Sunday at Tatham, which was the hub of a busy district. No regulated closing hours were recognised; the shop closed when there was nothing doing. As a matter of fact, Sunday was often the floating store's busy day. Farmers and selectors came from all directions—some riding, some driving, and a great many walking. Dozens came also from up and down stream in rowing boats and punts.

The Riversiders' Weekly Fair.

Much of the trade was done on the barter system, produce being taken in exchange for store goods, the storekeeper making a profit on both. Eggs arrived in tubs, boxes, and kerosene tins; poultry in coops and bags, or only hobbled with a piece of twine and slung across behind the saddle. One would see a farmer staggering down the bank with a bucket of eggs in one hand and a side of bacon under the other arm; his wife waddling behind with a fat Muscovy, and a few pounds of butter in a billycan; young Bill panting after her with a jar of honey in his arms; and then Sarah, lugging a couple of pairs of pullets by the legs. They would, probably be followed by three or four younger members of the family, come to share the inevitable bag of lollies, and a couple of dogs bringing up the rear. On the deck and along the bank you would see men discussing and comparing pipes and tobaccos, shirts and trousers, and trying on hats and boots; women displaying their purchases of print, children's clothes, boots, and what not.

Crowds rode down on Saturday and Sunday simply to look on, for this was the riversiders' weekly fair; and they sat on the bank smoking, or played quoits with horseshoes, played cards for tobacco under bushes, held jumping contests for men and horses, and sometimes had a race or two for drinks. Here, too, the young agriculturist met his best girl, which meant business for Skipper Softgoods—if only in the chocolate department. But jewellery and silk handkerchiefs were specialities conspicuously displayed for this class of customer. Aborigines also brought much money to the floating store. Nearly all the cattle runs of that part employed numbers of them as stockmen, and they mingled freely with the whites.

A Convenient System.

The system of exchange gave the floating store a pull over the town store. The farmers and selectors were not always supplied with ready cash, whilst they invariably had produce of some sort to sell. They could sell most of it in town, or by shipping it to Sydney; but the floating store was more convenient. They could dispose of it at their own wharf, and do their shopping there at the same time. It saved them the trouble of packing and the time that would be lost in going to town. The floating store rarely called anywhere when going down stream. It was generally laden with a miscellaneous cargo of produce, including poultry, that had to be unloaded and disposed of quickly. The skipper, of course, was always sure of his market before he bought.

Despite the good business done by the floating store, there was still something left for the hawker's boat, which, along many of our eastern rivers, takes the place of the hawker's cart. It is an ordinary pulling boat, fairly large, fitted with lockers, and sometimes with a light awning across the after part. It is well laden at the start with groceries, clothing material, tobacco, etc., which, in part, are exchanged for eggs, butter, and even poultry. Those who take poultry have low coops fitted across the stern, and collect the livestock on the return journey. Feeding costs nothing, as it is only necessary to step out of the boat by some farmer's crop and pull a few cobs of corn. If no corn is growing, he is provided with some from the barn when he takes delivery of the poultry. Sometimes he takes bacon, honey, preserves—anything not too bulky which he can sell again at a profit—in exchange for his own wares. In ordinary times he clears from £4 to £6 a week; at harvest time he occasionally doubles that amount.

Cheap Living.

When well away from town, the boatman ties up at every wharf on both banks, then walks up to the house to announce his arrival. Mrs. Farmer and family come down and perch on the bank while he displays his goods and hands them round for inspection. He takes orders for flour, sugar, and other bulky and weighty stuff, and delivers them on his next fortnightly trip. He cooks on the bank, and sleeps in his boat at night. With a trade worth about £5 a week, he enjoys a far better time than his contemporary with the cart. It costs him very little more to live than it does to feed his fowls. He carries gun and fishing tackle, and can get fish and game pretty well every day in the week. Wild fruits of many kinds grow along the banks of the rivers, some of them paying well the trouble of picking for market. I knew one hawker who used to fill half-a-dozen 50lb. flour bags with passion fruit in the scrubs every trip during the season, and sell them to the fruit shops in town. Tomatoes and Cape gooseberries were also saleable; so were wild ducks and pigeons. Hundreds of tame ducks disported in the river, and he sometimes found a difficulty in distinguishing them from the wild ones, unless they were near a house. Now and again he would be caught in the act of committing a regrettable mistake, but he was so profuse in his apologies, and laid such stress on his failing eyesight, and gave such good returns in groceries, that the farmer, who rushed down upon him in anger, departed with mollified feelings, if not altogether convinced.

With Wind and Tide.

Then the boatman has no horses to worry him; there are no squatters to harass him for trespass, no blacksoil plains to bog him, no breakdowns, and he can camp where he likes. He rows leisurely enough, too, occupying about a week each way. In wet weather it isn't very pleasant, but then he can sit under an awning and still do business. Floods alone block him; he can't pull against a swift current, nor trust his precious cargo on the whirl down. But tide and wind help him, for he has a good bellying sail to lift her when the wind is favourable.

Besides the floating stores, there are other trading boats on the rivers. Bakers and butchers' boats, for instance, go out from the township in the mornings, delivering bread and meat at the wharves, with an echoing coo-ee to summon the owners. Henry Searle, the phenomenal sculler, used to pull one of these bakers' boats on the Clarence before he started professional rowing. On the main streams nowadays motor boats do most of the work.</story>