<story title="The Hawker" date="1915">
Whether he is a general dealer, or merely a book canvasser, or a sewing-machine agent, the bush hawker is a quiet, inoffensive person. If he has a raucous voice about him at all, it is reserved for the campfires, where now and again he brushes the rust and cobwebs off its machinery with some catch song of the period. He is generally welcome in the backblocks, except to country store keepers and the squatters across whose runs he sometimes finds it convenient to take short cuts. He is not restricted to the back regions, his tilted cart being familiar on nearly all country roads, but he does more business, and can charge more for his wares where stores are not handy to the scattered settlers, and especially on roads that are not traversed by mail coaches. The parcels post system, which enables outlying settlers to get cheap goods direct from the main business quarters of their State, is as objectionable to him as to the storekeeper. It has resulted in lowering the prices of both, and still much trade that each of them regards as belonging to his district goes elsewhere. Away from the railways and coach roads the hawker flourishes.

It does not pay him to specialise in a single line of business, for the houses are too far apart, and the most optimistic does not expect to find a customer at every one he comes to. The sewing-machine agent is different, and the more thickly populated areas suit him best. He is seldom a good bushman, and he finds that his experiences in town travelling avail him little when he comes to travel among backblock settlers. He has to look out for grass and water, as well as provide for his own victualling; he has to camp out very often, wet and dry; he is at once groom, coachman, canvasser, clerk, cook, and wood and water joey. He meets with disaster so often that it becomes monotonous; and he encounters difficulties in everyday travelling that are not presented to the ordinary hawker, or to the teams and caravans of the peregrinating shows.

Unpleasant Predicaments.

The machine man often has his course mapped out for him by people who know nothing about the districts, by simply taking a list of names from the directory. These, the agent has to call on, and in looking for them, he not infrequently follows timber tracks, and after hours of wandering through scrub and forest, pulls up at a sawn stump, which doesn't want anything to-day, thank you, or at a timber-getter's camp. They don't want a sewing machine either. He is a sour-tempered, disgusted machinist then; but the wood warriors are sympathetic—and amused—and they tone him up on the best they have, make him comfortable for the night, while giving him a rigmarole of directions that ties him in forty knots next day. The worst happens to him when he loses his horse; when that dumb servant knocks up twenty miles from anywhere, and the cupboard is empty; or when his trap sinks down and sticks in a boggy crossing.

I once came upon a broken trap by the side of a lonely road. The owner was absent, probably looking for a house, and tacked upon a tree was this notice: "For sale, cheap, one first-class sample sewing machine. Also one horse, running at large, and one light waggonette, slightly damaged, owner retiring from business." That notice was eloquent of the humour of the traveller; he had reached the limit of endurance when he could make a joke of his own predicament.

Books.

The book canvasser gets along much better, though in many localities he is treated with suspicion. Some have gone before him, taken orders, received deposits on them, and then disappeared. This business was well worked by the unscrupulous at one time, which made it bad for the honest trader who came after him. They sometimes dealt in many lines, carrying only samples, and none of the orders they received ever materialised. Buying on that line, or on the instalment plan, unless the goods were produced on the spot, became unpopular. The wandering book-exchange was a better speculation. The librarian carried a stock of cheap books, which he sold at double or treble their value, or exchanged at considerable advantage to himself. He found business nearly any where, even with swagmen on the track; and at squattages, mining camps, and shearing sheds he did very well. Men who knock about, such as shearers, don't want to carry books they have read, excepting one or two, to swap with; and these he buys cheaply, and so keeps a stock in hand for months, augmented by parcels received here and there through the post or by team.

His Cargo and Team.

The ordinary hawker, with his tilted cart, and his cargo of drapery, toilet requisites, fancy ware, tobacconist goods and "brummagem" jewellery, keeps generally to the main roads, along which, with regular periodical trips, he works up a good connection. He has two to four horses, which pick up their living by the roadside. Where feed is scarce, he steals them into a good paddock if a chance offers, and it is sometimes neccessary to open a fence to water them. Consequently, he has some adventures occasionally on his travels. He drives slowly, for his road is long, and much of it heavy. Sometimes he drives all day without seeing a house, and on some dreary stretches he doesn't take a sixpence in a week. Then he may strike a spot where he will take £20 or £30 in one night.

His best business places are shearing sheds, selections and squattage huts, navvies' camps, wayside pubs, and mustering camps. At some of these he may stay a week. His stand is mostly on the road, as near the huts or tents as possible, and trade is done principally in the evenings, his travelling shop being well lit up, his goods displayed along the tailboard to the best advantage; men gather round his fire, sometimes yarning for hours. So he becomes known to hundreds over a vast extent of country. Wherever he pulls up, some cheerful voice greets him with, "Hulloa, Jimmy! How's business?" And Jimmy says there's plenty of sale, but very little profit. Too much competition nowadays. Somehow, he always seems to have something which he is selling at a loss to get rid of, though the price suggests to the purchaser, that it is a profitable line to be carrying. Jimmy knows his marks, and his price varies according to the customer he is dealing with.

A Roaring Trade.

At shearing sheds he takes "orders" for goods, the orders being paid by the manager, and debited to the shearers' accounts. On selections money is not always available when clothes and clothing material are wanted, and credit is given till the next trip, which may be three or six months hence. When he finds good customers there, he is just as well satisfied that way as with cash, especially as he makes ample allowance for booking. Another lucrative place for him is the wayside hotel. Many a bushman, after being a little while thereabouts, becomes overflowing with generosity. He takes the children—anybody's children—to the wandering warehouse, and treats them all round; he buys silk handkerchiefs and jewellery for the girls, sometimes he orders silk dresses for them; and an odd one buys a stock of beads and gaudy red and white handkerchiefs for the lubras who wash his clothes for him. With half a dozen such customers, "Jimmy" does a roaring trade besides in tobacconists' goods, and for an hour or two he is a paragon of smartness and affability.

Blacks' and Drovers' Camps.

A blacks' camp near a squattage is a good stand for a night or two. The young men of the camp work on the run, some of the women work at the house, and others wash for the men; so most of them have money, and nearly all are liberal with it. Playing cards, looking-glasses, pocket knives, pipes, print dresses, and coloured handkerchiefs are the principal wares he unloads at these places. A drover's camp is another place he never misses if he can help it. When the men have been long on the road, there are many little things they are in need of, from pipes and tobacco to hats and clothes. They are not particular about the price, and the hawker is not behind-hand at making them pay for the convenience of doing their shopping at their own campfires. He gets his dinner and breakfast with the drovers, and, perhaps, a few days supply of meat to take with him. On a far western stock route, in a fair season, he does a very good business, clearing on an average seven or eight pounds a week.

Flood and Drought.

With feed and water plentiful, everything goes well with him, and here and there he can camp and wait for the drovers and other travellers to come along. His cart at such times becomes a roadside shop, drawn up close to the track by a well-used camping ground. But there is always a deal of uncertainty in travelling on western tracks. Rain makes heavy going on black soil plains, and floods come down the creeks with surprising suddenness. Either of these eventualities may hold him up for a week in an uncomfortable spot. Then wash always make difficult crossings, and it happens now and again that he has to unload in the bed of a creek, and carry his goods to the top of the bank; and occasionally his cart breaks down in a place where repairs are not easily effected. His pole or a swingle bar may break, for instance, where there isn't a stick of timber within five miles. The hawker who travels these roads is generally handy enough to do his own repairing, and shoe his own horses, using a squattage forge and workshop for the purpose.

Droughty conditions are his main handicap in the far west, and many roads are barred to him in dry summers. He travels principally in the cooler months, for then shearing is on, and there is more activity on the runs and on the roads; but a drought that prevents teams from getting through with stores promises a rich reward for the hawker if he can reach the isolated regions, and sometimes he risks the trip and succeeds after much hardship and struggling. He may reap a couple of hundred pounds profit for his dash, but he is always threatened with disaster through scarcity of feed and the drying-up of waterholes.

The Afghan Hawker.

Women in the far backblocks who rarely go to town enjoy the luxury of shopping afforded them by the hawker. As they do most of their own sewing they are good customers to the hawker. They look for him, and have generally a pound or two by to spend when he comes.

The Afghan hawker, despised by most outbackers, pokes into out-of-the-way nooks and corners for odd sixpences—and occasionally gets into a tight fix. Nobody has much sympathy for him in his troubles, yet he flourishes in all parts of the bush. Living cheaply and travelling cheaply, selling shoddy goods at exorbitant prices, and taking his hoard elsewhere, he earns the undying enmity of the "general storekeeper" when he opens shop on a vacant lot, or on the outskirts of a township. For all that he passes no place where he can get picking for his horses, and all nights to him are Saturday nights.

Other Turnouts.

In addition to the hawker with his familiar tilted cart, there are others who travel with smaller turnouts, some of them on foot. The latter circulate principally in well-populated centres; when one is met with in wide spaces he is invariably a Chinaman. Swagmen, as a rule, do not peddle. Exceptions are the greenhide workers who plait whips, bridles, halters and ropes, and sell them to stockmen and drovers; "Waterbags," who carries a roll of canvas, and makes bags, with the neck of a bottle for a mouth, along the road; "Horns and Hoofs," who polishes bullocks' horns, and horse and bovine hoofs for people in town and country, often carrying specimens on top of his bundle; the wood carver, who makes stockwhip handles and needlewood pipes; the barber who opens temporarily at shearing sheds sharpening razors and shearing the shearers; and "Pumps," who puts the house pump in order, attends to valves and suckers at the wells and tanks, and doctors the engine. The two latter are travelling tradesmen, but not hawkers. None of them makes more than a living, and most of them engage in ordinary work, peddling only when out of a billet.</story>