<story title="Tanning Bark Strippers" date="1915">
It would be hard to find a more striking example of lack of enterprise in Australia than in the case of the tanning bark industry. Before the war the scarcity of tanning materials in the world's markets was causing grave anxiety everywhere, yet Australia could have supplied the necessaries in infinite quantities. No country was more bountifully endowed by Nature in this respect, and if advantage had been taken of this favourable position tens of thousands of men would have been systematically and constantly employed in growing and stripping, instead of a few thousands in little scattered communities working the indigenous scrubs and clumps in the bush.

The bark of our wattles is the best that is known for tanning purposes. So valuable is it that vast fields of the trees are cultivated in South Africa. The seed, obtained from South Australia, was first sown in Natal about 1886. Twenty years afterwards the wattle bark industry was worth over £100,000 per annum to the State, and the planted areas, which had before been waste, jumped up in price as though towns had sprung up there. In 1907 26,700 tons were exported, a thousand of which came to New South Wales! In 1914 about 70,000 tons, valued at over £400,000, were exported from South Africa, and it was estimated that the area then planted with full-grown wattle trees was 160,000 acres, a large proportion of the produce of which was used in the States. South Australians, from whom the Natal planters purchased their seed, metaphorically kicked themselves on finding that the purchasers had so soon developed into serious competitors in the important industry. South Australia's exports ten years earlier were valued at £70,000, while those of the colony of Natal were set down at £45,000. In 1910 the value of exports for the Commonwealth was nearly £120,000; then there was a rapid decline, until in 1913 it had dropped to £60,411. The great expansion of cultivated areas in South Africa, together with the working out of the wild trees in Australia, was the reason of the slump.

A Great Natural Heritage.

The wattle tree is one of the great natural heritages of Australia, being plentiful in all the States. South Australia is the largest producer, the industry yielding a considerable revenue to landholders and strippers in the hilly districts around Adelaide and along the coast. The bulk of the bark and wood is used in the Commonwealth. Victoria comes next in relation to quantity marketed, and then New South Wales and Queensland. The latter State does a big trade in mangrove bark, and West Australia in mallet bark, the stripping of which employs a great number of men in the thickets and scrubs, besides providing work for carters and teamsters for at least half the year. In New South Wales the wattle grows abundantly and luxuriantly throughout the eastern region, but inaccessibility through a bad railway system results in three parts of the bark and wood being wasted. The wattle is a shortlived tree, and should be harvested when five or six years old. Some do not strip them till, the seventh year. The bark of young trees is too thin, but there is light and heavy on all trees when the branches are stripped as well as the trunk. The first is known as the clippings, the main bark as the fleece. The expert stripper classes his bark on the ground, sorting the thin and light from the thick and heavy, the highest price being obtained for the latter. Before the war Sydney quotations were: For best, £10 10s per ton; medium, £10; light, £8 10s to £9 10s. The older trees have thicker and more numerous branches, much of which produce a good medium bark; but trees seven years old and upwards are often grubby, scaly, and gummy, and so are not always as profitable as the five and six year olds.

Stripping the Bark.

In the bush the men follow the creeks and gullies and mountain valleys in regions where the wattle is most abundant. In the wild state the wattle grows mainly in thickets and clumps, and there is consequently a large proportion of small stuff and a mixture of damaged old trees. There is also a considerable quantity of small branches that have to be cleared away. The bark can only be stripped when the sap is up, and the season varies with different species. With a tomahawk or light axe the stripper opens the bark near the ground, and tears it off in long strips. Some climb the trees, others use a light ladder, to strip the main branches, the naked trees being left to die and waste, to be swept away eventually by bush fires. But near a steamship service or railway the trees are cut down, and the timber adds a nice little sum to the strippers' incomes. In such situations experts earn up to £10 a week; where there is a plenitude of sound commercial trees, necessitating little waste of time in shifting camp and hunting around, they sometimes make more than that. In depending on the wilds for their harvest, of course, their weekly earnings must show considerable variation, for one area will give a handsome return for little labour, whereas another will exact much work for a less result. Then the wattle is very plentiful in spots, and scattered in others. As the areas become worked out—for a season or two—they have to go farther and farther back, which entails more carting and greater expense in delivering the goods.

Products of the Wattle.

When handy to a market there is absolutely no waste in the wattle tree. Even the flowers, which are produced in rich abundance, are always saleable. The wood, which is light, soft, and elastic, is used for cask staves, spokes and felloes, axe and pick handles, and for other purposes requiring a tough, and durable grain. The wood is also excellent fuel, and all faulty timber is sold for this purpose at about 10s a ton. Branches that are too small for stripping, and twigs and leaves—known as the thresh—have also a market value, a fluid extract containing nearly 40 per cent. of soluble tannin being obtained from them. There is, further, a considerable sale for wattle seed, of which a healthy tree produces a heavy crop, and which is easily gathered. Besides their use for cultivation, they have medicinal properties, as also have the pods and curls. Other products are gum and jelly, which are sold in Sydney shops.

Camp Life.

The strippers, except in cultivated areas, lead an open-air life, always amid wild surroundings, in sweet, open forests where the only intruders are cattle and wild animals and an occasional stockman, riding through. They pitch their tents on the bank of a creek close to their work, and as one area is cut out they shift camp to another. Some have carts, others use only pack-horses with which their bark is conveyed to a central depot, whence it is taken to a wharf or railway siding by a teamster. The pack horse is not much of a convenience, except to begin with in sparsely-cropped districts. It soon gives way to a light cart, which is handy for gathering up scattered heaps of bark and timber, and for shifting camp. In thick clumps a load can be thrown together by hand. Many of the strippers, working together from two to half-a-dozen men in a camp, have their own teams—a heavy dray and three or four horses. The wet bark is made into small bundles, and, when dry, is roughly pressed into bales or put into bags for delivery to agents. In these fields there is generally plenty of game, and good fishing is had in permanent creeks and holes; so that with guns and lines the men live well and cheaply. In most camps there is a rifle or two in readiness for kangaroos and wallabies; and in the infested districts, poisoned baits are laid in odd hours for dingoes and foxes, the scalps and skins of which add a fair sum to the earnings of the camp.

Wasteful Methods.

Weather has a good deal of influence on the strippers' work. A dry spring and summer renders stripping difficult, at times impossible. In such seasons there is a considerable advance in price and men who regularly follow this avocation are tempted to put in a lot of extra work for a smaller output. A heavy waste of prime bark results, but while the rest of the products can be marketed the strippers can still make good money at it.

The method of depending wholly on the natural production of the bush, is itself wasteful. When areas are worked right out there is no provision for the future, and the time lost and the expense of carrying from long distances could be saved by yearly plantings. Since South Africa so strikingly demonstrated the possibilities of this industry the Rip Van Winkles of Australia have begun to rub the sleep out of their eyes and look with a new interest on their national emblem. There are wattle plantations here and there in New South Wales, mostly worked in conjunction with dairying. In West Australia there are plantations under the control of the Forestry Department. The Western State formerly exported large quantities of mallet bark—approximately £85,000 worth in 1911—but this trade gradually dwindled as the supplies of the brush became exhausted; whilst in South Africa, where this tree also was cultivated from Australian seed, the industry expanded. The principal customer, outside Australia, for both mallet and wattle barks was Germany.

Wattle Fanning.

Wattle farming is a very profitable industry. After ploughing and sowing very little cultivating is required, as the trees, once they are well rooted, can take care of themselves. An acre carries 500 trees, planted a little less than 10 feet apart, though some plant as closely as 6 feet, which works out at 1210 to the acre. A tree yields from 301b. to half a hundredweight of wet bark, which loses about a third of its weight in drying. At 20lb. of dry bark per tree the yield per acre would be about 4½ tons, worth, say, £40. Stripping, chopping, bagging, carriage to port, freight, cartage, and commission run to about £4 per ton, leaving a balance of £22 on the acre. Then there is the initial ploughing and planting, besides fencing, all of which may be set down at £500 for a 200-acre farm. As a set-off against this and the alternate ploughing and planting there are the commercial timber, fuel and thresh. As the trees are stripped only when five or six years old, the farm would be planted in five sections of 40 acres each, extending over a period of five years; so that after the first section matured there would be 40 acres to harvest and re-plant annually. The best bark for tanning is obtained from the green and black wattles. These trees, when mature, are about five or six inches in diameter. Some planters, instead of planting in sections, cover the whole area, then strip only every third tree at the first harvest; a similar number is stripped the next year, and the balance the following year. This gives an increased weight, estimated at 14lb. to the tree, for the second and third strippings. On this basis it is calculated that the aggregate yield for the first seven years is £120. Though the stripped trees are replaced almost immediately, there is a break, however, before the fourth harvest is ready, and the young trees do not grow so well when planted among those of advanced growth.</story>