<story title="The Dairyman" date="1915">
Just now the dairyman is one of the workers who is very prominent in the public mind, since his produce has become so precious in many quarters that it is only distributed in half-pounds to regular customers at the shops. Under ordinary circumstances this shortage of supplies would mean good business to the dairymen even with the decreased output that winter always brings. At such times when there is a scarcity, and prices are high, one is accustomed to hear the remark that the farmers must be making good money; but to-day, when prices are fixed, everybody knows what they are making. Where the drought has affected the industry the returns do not amount to much, and naturally these complain that they are not allowed to take advantage of the position, and so make up with a big price for their decreased output. Still, with butter at 150s a cwt. wholesale, the producer is getting much above the usual winter price; and in spring and summer, when supplies are heavy, and the rates little more than half those now ruling, his industry is one of the most lucrative that can be engaged in on the land.

Needs Very Little Training.

Dairying is also a calling that nearly any one can engage in with very little training. With creameries established within easy reach in all dairying centres, it is only necessary at the beginning to know how to milk, and a person can become competent at that in a few days. To start business with a dairy farm of his own is another matter. He requires some knowledge of stock, and of general farm work, and a good lump of capital at the outset. It is an old saying among dairymen that a few good cows on a good pasture are as good as a banking account. He is assured of a regular income, and though long spells of dry weather affect him, he is not so much dependent on periodical rains as the agriculturist. By judicious management in the storage of fodder in the good season he can easily pull through a bad winter and tide over a considerable drought that would be ruinous to a man depending on crops alone. But there are few occupations on the land that call for a greater outlay at the start. A few years back a man of small means could take up a selection, and buy a mob of heifers at two or three pounds a head. That is impossible to-day; the high price of cattle would require a couple of hundred pounds to establish a small herd alone, for first-class milking strains are more valuable than butcher's meat. Then there is a heavy rent in desirable centres, as in the north-eastern corner of the State, or a big price for the purchase of an estate, running to £50 and £60 an acre. Still, there are more ways, than one of making a start, and ultimately earning an independence.

The Money.

All big dairies employ a number of hands, men and boys. The latter begin at 10s a week, with board and lodging, and gradually rise to 25s. The workers' personal expenses being very small, a thrifty youth may save enough by the time he reaches manhood to acquire a leasehold in a new neighbourhood; and then he proceeds to stock it bit by bit by buying poddies from dairymen who usually have little room for young cattle. In three or four years this young stock will be worth many times their original cost. He keeps only what promises to be profitable dairy cattle, and sells the rest to the butcher. The money thus obtained enables him to build yards, shed and hut. That much accomplished, he should be in a position to start dairying, and thereafter depend wholly on the product of his cows. Unless there are many other settlers around him, intending to engage in the same capacity, the drawback will be the want of a creamery or butter factory. Most such concerns in the northeastern districts are worked on the co-operative principle, and where there are sufficient dairymen that difficulty is easily overcome. This is the easiest and cheapest way in which a group of new settlers get going with a small capital; and generally when land is made available there is sufficient simultaneous settlement to start a new centre of activity.

It is not necessary, of course, that the creamery should be within coo-oe of the dairy farm. The Dorrigo may be taken as an example as to how pioneer dairying is carried on. The Dorrigo is very rough, scrubby country, entailing years of hard labour in clearing and planting with grass. But the fact that this is done proves the great importance of the dairying industry. Crops of maize may be grown the first year or two on a good portion of the land, the grain being simply planted with a hoe. Dairying commenced here before there was any thought of a North Coast Railway. Most of the settlers did their own separating, and conveyed the cream to a main road, where it was picked up by a cream coach, and taken to the factory. From some of the homesteads, planted back among the steep hills, it was carried in cans on packhorses; from others in slides, and in milk carts, and waggonettes. Kyogle factory, from which comes some of the best butter in the State, employs cream coaches, the drivers of which are paid about £2 10s a week.

The Calves and the Pigs.

At many of the big factories milk is delivered direct from the yard, each dairyman taking back with him his proportion of the separated milk. This he feeds to the poddied calves and pigs, the latter being a very valuable side line. In main centres bacon curing is an adjunct of the dairy, as in the famous Byron Bay works. From this factory alone over a thousand tons of butter are annually shipped to Sydney, and nearly £25,000 a month is paid to the producers who supply it. Cheques are paid monthly to the producers, each man receiving an amount equivalent to the amount of cream he has sent in, and according to the ruling price of butter at the factory which, in ordinary times, fluctuates in accordance with the quantity in the market. The average price before the war was about 9d; and a dairyman with 30 or 40 first-class milch cows makes a very good income when butter is only 6d a pound at the factory. Among the bigger operators £100 a month is a common cheque in normal seasons. Beyond labour, if he has no family of his own, his expenses are nothing to speak of. He grows his own fodder, working a small plantation between the morning and afternoon milkings; and he has unlimited supplies of bacon, eggs and vegetables. His estate supplies him also with all the fuel he wants, with much of his meat, and other necessaries. When he has a family the children supply the labour, so far as milking is concerned—and perhaps a boy or girl will take the milk or cream to the factory. A big family is an advantage to a dairyman, for every boy and girl old enough to milk is a help. On odd places the children are set to work at a very early age, milking so many cows in the morning before they go to school, and hurrying home in the afternoon to milk them again before tea. Though the work is light to strong lads, it is hard on young children, and the hours are long and wearisome. This child slavery is the worst part of the dairying business, but, fortunately, it is not very prevalent. It is most noticeable on the farms worked on the share system, and in such cases it is practically compelled by the landlords.

The Share System.

The share system enables a man to start dairying without capital. The farmer does all the work of the dairy; the landlord provides the farm and grazing area, and undertakes to keep the milking herd up to a certain number all the year round, besides supplying all necessary plant. He receives half the profits, while the farmer takes the other half. The calves are also sometimes divided between them. Whenever a landlord requires a partner in this sort of transaction he invariably advertises for a man with a family. When the agreement is signed between them it is thus an obligation on the family to work. Under favourable conditions a man with three or four strong boys and girls in their teens can use this means as a stepping-stone to a dairy of his own. He can live well, and put by a sum month by month, until he has sufficient capital to buy a grazing area, or to lease land as another intermediary step, and buy stock and plant. For a poor man it offers the quickest and surest road to independence in the dairying line, but it demands continuous work and good management. When he has acquired his own herd and pasture, he gets full value for his labours, as a deduction of 1½d from the wholesale price of butter covers the cost of operations at the factory. It is calculated that grass land in the north-east of the State, without any assistance from artificial feeding, returns the dairyman £5 an acre per year in cream.

Over £1,000,000 a Year.

The industry, which is worth over a million a year for the State, and is continually growing, employs a great amount of labour, and offers more employment for lads than anything else along the eastern coast. In a district where dairying is almost exclusively carried on, there is not much hired labour to be had among the settlers, as these require all their own boys at home; and as soon as the sons are old enough to marry they start on their own hook. There is, therefore a constant demand for Sydney boys from the Pitt Town Training Farm, where suitable boys are given two or three months free training by the Government. They are then placed with a reputable farmer, the agreement as to wages and conditions being fixed up by Government officials before they leave Sydney. In these troublesome days, therefore, dairying offers a home, with healthy surroundings, and constant employment, besides prospects of ultimate independence, to youths who are looking for a career.

Tied to the Milking Stool.

The worst part of the work is that the dairyman is continuously tied to the milking stool. He has his mob to put through morning and evening, every day in the week, Sunday included, wet and dry, winter and summer. Arrangements are generally made, however, for the operators to get off every second Sunday. They have to begin work early, and between milkings there is the cleaning up to be done, odd jobs about the yards and sheds, and a bit of cultivating or gardening to do. None of the work is heavy, but there is always enough to keep every person busy. There is very rarely any slack time on a dairy farm.</story>