<story title="The Fencer" date="1915">
In the old days of pastoral supremacy fencing was a calling that kept a great number of men in constant work in every district from the coast to the far runs of the interior. It still provides much employment everywhere, though under altered conditions. A more rapid and less stable process generaly prevails to-day, when sub-divisions take place, or when land is taken up by fresh settlers, and new lines of fencing are erected. On big runs the lines are kept in repair by boundary riders, or by men permanently employed as fencers. More repairing is needed on a sheep run than on a cattle run. Sheep poke through small gaps that cattle wouldn't notice; and a mob, when frightened by a dingo—which cattle take little notice of, unless young calves are present—will crowd on to a fence and damage it. Then heavy rains cause washaways in gullies and creeks, which are more frequent in the open sheep country than in the more sheltered cattle country.

Wages and Working Hours.

The usual pay of these men is from a pound to 30s a week and keep. The pay depends on the locality and the nature of the work. In parts of western Queensland they are paid up to £2 a week and rations. A single ration is 10lb. of flour, 12lb. of meat, 2lb. of sugar, and ¼lb. of tea. On most places there is no limit to meat, and extras are also given. A married man receives double rations. Excepting for an outcamp, or sub-squattage, where the wife is required occasionally to cook for musterers, married men are not employed permanently on weekly pay to any extent.

The working hours are about 10 a day for five days a week, and 8 hours on Saturday. Under the Rural Workers' Award, which was to have come into force on October 1, 1914, but was suspended on account of the war, the working time is fixed at 48 hours a week, and the pay at 8s 4d a day and keep, or 10s 6d per day where the employee finds himself. It is also provided that permanent employees shall be granted two weeks' holiday each year without deduction of weekly wages, in addition to the ordinary public holidays, which are New Year, Anniversary, Eight Hour, Good Friday, Christmas and Boxing Days, King's Birthday, and any other day proclaimed as such. At present only three of these days are recognised, plus race days and show days; but an employee can have a fortnight or a month off in slack times without pay.

Overtime.

It often happens that Sunday work is necessary, as at mustering time, and when bush fires are raging, or when a damaging flood has occurred on particular parts of the run, but no additional pay is allowed for this, beyond a holiday when the work is completed. Under the award overtime rates will have to be paid, equalling time and a half ordinary rates, and all time in excess of 8 hours at two shillings an hour.

Bush fires make heavy work for the fencer. Together with other employees he has to protect the lines, saving as much from being burnt as possible. He follows the lines behind the firefighters, clearing away burning wood, chopping off burning splinters and sapwood with a tomahawk, and throwing water into the mortise holes that, have caught alight. Rails and posts are burnt through here and there, and a panel or two are smashed in places by falling trees. The damage is repaired temporarily, the work sometimes keeping him going till late at night. Afterwards he goes along the line with a horse and cart, carrying tools and campware, and spare rails and posts. Where the work is more than a couple of miles from the homestead, he camps out, cooking for himself. Much of his work is far out on the run, and in such cases he returns home only on Saturday afternoons. Sometimes he is alone; at other times he has a mate.

He shifts camp every second day or so; where there is only a rail to put in or a broken wire to mend, he takes his cart and campware with him in the morning, driving along till near sundown, when he turns out at the nearest water. In big-timbered country water is nearly always handy. Game is also plentiful in lagoons and swamps, and, therefore, he occasionally includes a gun among his accoutrements, and takes a brace or two of ducks home with him for Sunday. In the same regions wild bees' nests are frequently found, and if the trees are not too big he cuts one out now and again. After the honey has been extracted at home, a brew of honeymead is made from the broken comb.

Contracts.

Long lines of new fencing are generally erected by contract, the work being let in sections at so much a mile. The price varies according to specifications, the nature of the country, and the supply of timber. No man can estimate correctly the cost of fencing without inspecting the country he has to work over, judging the quantity and splitting quality of the timber, and the distance it has to be drawn to the line. Knowing this, the fencer calculates from experience what he can put up in a week, and so arrives at a contract price that will leave him a little margin of profit over and above ordinary weekly pay. Competition among tenderers, and a fairly accurate knowledge of the work possessed by employers, does not allow him to mark off enough to run quickly into riches. It is a work that requires experience. An expert will make good money, earning, in favourable situations, and by working early and late, twenty pounds a month, whereas on an exactly similar contract an indifferent worker would make little more than his tucker. There is a knack even in sinking postholes, in splitting and mortising. Skill with the adze is another necessary accomplishment; and while some men have trouble in keeping a straight line, to others it comes as easy as falling off a log.

Sometimes the material is laid on the line, the fencer doing only the erecting; at other times he does the whole of the work from splitting to putting up. Again, a big contract is occasionally sub-let, which brings in a superfluous middleman to mop up the profits. Under the award mentioned, piecework is only allowed on condition that it works out at the log rate, or the difference is made up if it falls short of that. Where gangs are employed on piecework the principle of share and share alike applies, and no sub-letting of piecework is permitted. On big contracts, the splitting, mortising or boring, delivering, and occasionally, posthole-sinking, are not infrequently let separately to others by the general contractor.

Picturesque Features.

Pretty well every period of Australian settlement has had its own style of fencing, the stages of development being even more marked in this way than in the dwellings of the settlers. The dog-leg fence, and the cockatoo fence are notable pioneers. These are impressed as fixedly in our early annals as the old bark hut. Together they formed the picturesque features of a selector's home. To men who had lots of time for building, they were cheap, for the material was cut as it was required along the alignment. It was put up quickly; the main work was keeping it in repair after it was up, and guarding it from fires.

The chock-and-log was heavier, and entailed more labour, besides being a greater risk. The brush fence also made a lot of work, and required a good deal of attention after it was "finished." The combustibility of each of these four kinds of the fencer's handiwork was their main fault; they made a great blaze that was hard to extinguish, without demolishing a lot of it, once it got alight; and in their day grass grew saddle deep in the home paddocks, for there was not so much stock about then. It was also these fences that brought the kangaroo and the emu into disfavour, for if they bumped against the structure, or hit it in jumping over, some of it fell down.

The sapling fence was a quick makeshift on selections and farms. It was known as the lazy-man's fence, or the cocky's boundary—so designated in scorn by stockmen and squattage hands. It was the cheapest all wood enclosure that could be built, but it caused a lot of friction between squatters and selectors, for stock frequently broke through it.

On Big Runs.

The squatters' fences at that time were substantial three and four-rail affairs, with huge gate posts, standing 12ft. high, often 18 inches in diameter at the small end, with a heavy cap across the top. The yards were built of five or six rails, and all the gateways were capped. A big mustering yard, with the necessary horse yard and small paddock provided a 12 months' contract for a couple of men, who generally had the assistance of a bullock driver. Timber was very plentiful and handy, and the contract was worth from £300 to £500. The big stub sheep yards of the far west, built of round timber, or round timber split in halves, most of it standing on end, cost up to £500 each. These need attention at least once a year, for the stubs rot and break off at the butts, and drifting sand piles up against them. One such yard, which cost £500, was completely buried under sand in south-west Queensland while it was yet practically new. Several dust storms, following in close succession, beat the shovellers.

The Poet's Fancy.

The common cattle boundary in later times was the two-railed fence. There are old lines on coastal runs, built of ironbark posts and grey gum rails that have stood for three quarters of a century. Until wire and swing gates came into general use, the two-rail structure and the sliprails were familiar wherever one went. The Australian poet still sings of the sliprails, as the place where his hero meets the girl what time the sun goes down, or says good-night when the mopoke is calling by the creek. They have their history, these old fences, and many a poetic fancy clings about them still.

The two-rail was followed by the top-rail and three wires, which in turn gave way to a great extent to the all-wire fence. Wire makes quick work, and it was a boon to the great open spaces of outback. It lessened the fencers' employment, though the ravages of bunny made amends for him in compelling the erection of thousands of miles of rabbit proof netting. Between these two the sub-dividing lightning fence is common on far back sheep runs. The posts stand about 30ft apart, with a couple of wire supports between standing on the ground. Big cheques were made in the building of netting fences, but nowadays the landowners can work out the cost of a mile to a pound or less, and the contractor rarely gets a chance to make more than good wages, unless he works long hours. Still most old hands prefer piece work. In both branches a large number of men are constantly employed throughout the State.</story>