<story title="The Mailman" date="1915">
A certain succession of stages invariably marks the growth of mail service in the inland settlements. At the outposts it is infrequent and irregular. Some places get their mails only at long intervals, and then by private carriers. Where homesteads are scattered and remote the Government mail travels a main route, leaving letters and papers in boxes, the owners of which may live far back from the road. The boxes, of varying shapes and sizes, are nailed to trees, and are often the only signs of a habitation in the locality. Sometimes the receptacle is a biscuit tin, or merely a hollow in the trunk of a tree. These are the 'bush post offices,' conspicuous on every backblock road along which a mailman or a mail coach goes. Some squatters and other scattered denizens have not even this convenience, and have to get their mails once a week from the nearest town. A boy employed on a distant squattage at about 15s a week and keep carries these mails on horseback, serving everybody along his track. Where there is much to carry, a man is sent with a light buggy. His pay is from 25s to 30s a week and keep, but mail-running is only a portion of his work. He goes in one day and out the next, receiving refreshments and fresh horses from the intermediary places he serves.

Primitive Services.

The pioneer mailman of all is the aborigine, who, on foot or on horseback, crosses the untracked bush between new camps and the nearest mail route or squattage homestead. At the latter depot mails may accumulate for a month or more, and when they reach their destination they are more avidly read and more appreciated than in districts that have a frequent and properly accredited service. There is a romance also in the lives of these people which gradually fades as the links with civilisation become closer and more firmly welded. They have grown patient and philosophical in a life that calls for the best and noblest in humanity, a life in which each one has to rely on his own resources, and is not pampered by Governments even to the extent of a macadamised road.

But this primitive service in time becomes inadequate to the growing importance of the new district; the department calls for tenders, and an officially-qualified mailman rides through once a fortnight, or once a month, according to population and accessibility. A one horse mail of this kind may be run for £200 to £400 a year. Prices depend greatly on the locality, the weight of mail matter, and competition. The mail man has to provide his own horses and gear. He needs several changes on a long track, and if the mail is heavy he requires a pack horse, which doubles the number of horses he has to keep at the stages; and if there is not enough natural feed all the year round he needs a sum equal to five or ten shillings per head for fodder. Again, a weekly mail to a far-distant place would require an assistant, working the opposite end, to carry it through, in which case his contract price is doubled.

Everybody's Friend.

A good type of the hardy, self-reliant men who civilise the great inlands is this bush mailman—a good rider, inured to hardship and solitude, skilled in bushcraft, resourceful, and tireless. More than any traveller is he looked for on his lonely rides. He is the friend of everybody, and everybody is his friend. No one begrudges time or labour in looking after his horses and attending to his personal wants when he arrives. His contract seldom allows him much time to waste on the way, and a lost horse, or delay in catching one, means a lot to him. Sometimes his horse goes lame, or becomes otherwise unfit for awhile, and then his friends of the road come to his assistance. No one on the far tracks who can help it sees a mailman stuck, and he does them many a little favour in return in carrying verbal messages and light parcels. Through rain and shine, through flood and drought, he has to ride on, often in the lonelier hours of night. Though the department makes no allowance for drought, there is a specified height as to floods, when the mails must not be risked in crossing creeks and rivers; but wet, boggy flats and plains make hard going for him in rainy weather. In dry summers, he has the road much to himself, and has to battle through the worst single-handed; but in good seasons he does not want for company, and, with fresh horses, his occupation is not at all unpleasant.

To the Fringes of Civilisation.

With a fortnightly mail he goes out one week and back the next. At times he is blocked for days by floods; and occasionally in summer, on far western tracks, his horse knocks up or dies, and he has to do part of the journey on foot, carrying the mailbags on his back. Besides carrying the mail news of the world to the fringes of civilisation, he is the constant purveyor of local news, gleaned up and down the long track he travels. There is always something of interest in the bush for the dwellers therein, and the mailman, knowing everybody and calling regularly at so many places, misses little of what happens.

Small branch lines running a horse mail are often taken by a settler or a townsman who has a few horses running idle, and a promising son similarly engaged. He can run a 50-mile line (up and down once a week) for £50 a year. His horses are grass-fed; though sometimes he grows a little green stuff and corn, and gives them a 'bite' occasionally.

But a village springs up in the wilderness, and with the increasing importance of the district the horse-mailman passes, and much of the romance of pioneering life goes with him. The next stage in the service is the shanghai—a light vehicle drawn by two horses, and adapted for quick travelling on rough bush roads. As the passenger traffic develops, and the postal matter grows heavier, the shanghai in turn disappears, its place being taken by the heavy mail coach. If more prosaic than the lone horseman, the big, lumbering vehicle, familiar over thousands of miles of Australian roads, is still clothed with a glamour begotten of the stirring, adventurous days of the past.

The Coach.

While any bushman with a few horses can run a mail with packhorse or shanghai, the coach contractor requires some capital to establish a working plant. The Government requires him, before his tender is accepted, to find securities that the contract will be faithfully carried out. Then he has to arrange for changing depots along his route, at each of which a groom is needed. A fair distance between depots is about 20 to 25 miles, but on some roads they run to 35 miles apart. Much depends on the sort of road, and the nature of the country. There are roads so monotonously level and easy that the coach-driver could go from one change to another in his sleep; there are some that keep him hardworking through the greater part of his trip; and there are others, as in the mountainous regions, that require skill and continual watchfulness to negotiate.

The average driver is patient and enduring. In normal seasons his life is not one of ease and leisure. When the roads are sticky and boggy, and the coach is groaning under its heavy load, his best efforts have to be put forth to battle through on the long stages. On outback roads there are few bridges and culverts, and a small flood renders many crossings difficult, at times dangerous. But a long, dry period affects him worse than anything. To the contractor it may result in serious loss. An instance in point was given during the drought of 1902, which, in Queensland, temporarily held up Cobb and Co., probably the biggest mail coaching concern in the world. Their subsidy for one year was £20,200 for the carriage of mails over Queensland roads aggregating 4000 miles; and during the same period the cost of feeding the 1400 horses that were required amounted to £22,900; besides which they paid £20,000 a year in wages, and they valued their plant, including horses, at £45,000. Expenses, of course, were exceptional at that time. Cost of feed had risen 100 per cent., and there was no grass or herbage to help. Passenger fares had also slumped, as few people travel at such times in the interior.

Subsidies and Fares.

It very often happens that the subsidy doesn't pay feed and wages. The contractor tells you that mail carrying is a cut-throat business; competition keeps him down, and he has to depend on passengers' fares and the carriage of parcels to make it pay. Perhaps when he starts there is plenty of grass, horse feed is cheap, and his horses in good condition. But a long spell of dry weather alters all that, and if sufficient passengers don't happen along to meet the increased expenditure, the ledger begins to tot up too much on the wrong side. Still, the experienced man isn't blind to these possible circumstances when he puts in his tender, Very often a bigger subsidy is paid on a 50-mile line than on a 100-mile line, and it not infrequently happens that a horse mailman gets more for a weekly trip than a coach contractor gets for running a biweekly mail, distance being equal. The 'road business' is the principal factor in the determination of the subsidy required by the contractor. On a 200-mile western line, on which the passenger fare was £6 each way; in the busy season it was not uncommon to see the coach packed, going up and down, for several trips in succession. There were two mails a week, and an average of one passenger each way gave an income of £1248 a year from this source alone. The parcels post matter was very heavy on this line, but still left room for the carriage of outside parcels to the extent of another £250 a year. In dry summers even bags of chaff were carried, stacked high on the roof of the coach. This line was also heavily subsidised, for there was hardly any competition, the road being mostly dry, and required a costly plant.

Effect of 'Road Business.'

On a line in the north-eastern corner of New South Wales, a contractor of long standing went a little higher than usual one year, stating that the line didn't pay, and lost the contract, but he still kept his coaches running, undercutting the other man in fares and carrying charges. This meant loss for both, but eventually he regained command of the road, and after that, instead of a 'rise,' he carried the mails at reduced rates. In the same locality a ferry punt was for years subsidised by Government, the amount being fixed by tender. Suddenly a number of people saw money in that punt, and the subsidy dropped quickly from £50 to a few shillings. Eventually, the ferryman paid the Government for the right of plying there, the right being sold by tender. Possibly, the same thing would happen on some 'business roads' in the case of mail coaches if the vehicles could have the same kind of monopoly as that which is enjoyed by the ferryman. The road business, at all events, very materially affects the subsidy where two or more coach proprietors want the same line.

Cost of Running a Mail Coach.

The cost of running a mail coach depends greatly on the route. Roughly, a 200-mile line would require ten changes, and a team of six horses and two emergency horses at each. Eighty horses at 7s 6d per head costs £30 a week to keep; five grooms at £2 10s (including keep), £12 10s; five grooms (at wayside pubs and selectors' huts), at 15s, £3 15s; two drivers at £3 10s (including board and lodging), £7; repairs, shoeing, &c., £2 15s; total, £56 per week, or £2912 per annum. Two coaches are kept in constant running, meeting half-way, and as a substitute can't always be borrowed when one breaks down, three emergency vehicles are necessary, one at each end, and one at the meeting places. Then there is the harness and other paraphernalia; and an agent at one end of the line, usually a publican, who receives a commission on fares, and other little pickings; and there is the wear and tear. Setting down the capital invested at £2000, five per cent, depreciation brings the total cost to £3012 per annum. The subsidy for such a line may be anything from £500 to £3000 or more per year. On a good passenger-carrying line the subsidy is low; but on a line which carries much parcels post matter and few passengers the subsidy is high.

Drivers on some short lines are paid only 30s to 40s per week, arrangements being made by the contractor for their board and lodging. The ordinary wage is about £2 10s to £3 a week, though some are paid £4 a week. On some long lines a driver may be on the box for two nights, and the better part of two days, going down, and the same going up, snatching a little rest on the way if the travelling is good. He has three whole days and nights out of the seven to rest and sleep. Short lines, though the drivers may be on the box every day, are picnics in comparison.</story>