<story title="The Farm Hand" date="1915">
Agriculture ranks as the first and greatest of all industries, the one that is more necessary to man than any other, and in this field an enormous amount of labour is always employed. It is an industry that is continually expanding with the growth of settlement, and every year absorbing still more labour, whereas the purely pastoral pursuits, which held pride of place in Australia for nearly a century, grow less with the progress of the nation and the development of the country. There is nothing like a big war to demonstrate the importance of the man behind the plough; his products, whether wheat, sugar, maize, lucerne or potatoes, are needed even more than ammunition; and so from the outset of the European conflagration he has been appealed to from all sides to get an extra move on, and to plough more than usual. It is he who has to feed the soldiers and the people who are crowded in big cities; he is the main basis on which all depend to avert famine, and to ensure victory. In relation to other workers he has the advantage in that he can always provide for himself and family. For all that his calling is not a bed of roses.

Hard as Navvying.

Farm labour is never easy. Taken all the year round, it is as hard as navvying, or breaking stones on the road. It may be classed as unskilled labour, and again, to a certain extent, it is not. The navvy pursues one kind of work throughout his job, and the veriest novice can turn to it without experience. To be a competent farm hand a man has to have a knowledge of many things, which are not learned in a day or a week, and be able to handle many intricate pieces of machinery. He has a lot of heavy ploughing, grubbing and lumping on his season's programme. At all times, whatever his particular occupation may happen to be, he works in a field where any suggestion of the Government stroke is anathema. Still, farm life is frequently prescribed by doctors for city youths whose constitutions are not as robust as they should be; and many a lad has been sent into the country to go through the whole mill, whose parents were wealthy or in good positions in Sydney. Numbers of other city lads are every year placed on training farms directly their school days are over, with the object of fitting them for a rural life, ensuring constant employment in a healthy calling, and enabling them to work their way to an income-producing home of their own.

A City View.

Country lads often show a preference for squattage life, the saddle and stockwhip being more attractive and easier than the plough; but the city youth, when his thoughts go beyond suburbia, happily thinks there is nothing as nice as being on a farm, where there is plenty of room to turn round; where there is shooting and hunting; where milk flows like water, eggs are picked up in the grass, and fruits have only to be pulled off the trees. At first sight the farm, with its growing crops, its quiet cows and horses, its poultry, pigs, bees and a hundred other products, to the average boy is an enchanting place; but when he has known it a month or two the charm wears off, and he begins to look on the neighbouring cattle run with envy. Later on, as experience comes to him, the thought of squattage life is distasteful; the farm takes hold of him, and his interests become centred in agriculture. He is not a boy then. He has passed that period of apprenticeship that is so distasteful to all boys, and which comes rather as a shock to those who go to it fresh from Sydney. These generally get their first training at the Government Farm at Pitt Town, where they spend two or three months; and having passed this probationary period without losing in zest and courage, they are launched on an agricultural career by being placed out with farmers in different parts of the country.

The Disillusionment.

It is then the disillusionment commences. The Government training farm is one thing: the common farm is quite another, He finds now that he has to get up at daylight in summer, and much before daylight in winter, to hunt up the horses and cows, harness and milk, feed calves, pigs and fowls, and do other duties before breakfast. He is bustled around as though life depended on getting everything done in record time. Breakfast over, he goes down the farm to plough, harrow, harvest, or whatever the work may be, till dinner time. The heat and dust and hard toil has got him pretty well wearied by then; but he is at it again in an hour, and continues till sundown. Then, having let the horses go, he feeds the pigs and chops wood for the morning. On a maize farm he has to rush off in the grey dawn, through frosted grass and woods, to hunt away cockatoos. He knew nothing of this on the Government farm, where it isn't necessary to get a living out of farming, and so he begins to think that he has mistaken his vocation. The shrewd farmer who understands something of human nature takes his boy steadily at first until he is used to the place, and his muscles get trained to the work. With a prosperous, kind-hearted family, and such are not scarce in any part of the State, he will get along smoothly enough from the outset, and be satisfied with his change of life. With experience he finds the work comparatively easy, and has much more time to do it in.

The First Wages.

At the start he gets 10s to 12s 6d a week and keep. After the first year he gets a rise about every six mouths until he is getting; 30s a week. A ploughman receives up to 35s a week, and his keep. There is a good deal of labour about a farm at times that does not require experience, and such casual labour is usually paid for at the rate of 25s a week and keep. At harvest time, when this casual labour is in most demand, six and seven shillings a day is paid in wheat areas. Here and there, when labour has been scarce, and the case urgent, one pound a day has been paid to good workers. But harvesting doesn't last very long, and under the contract system of stripping one batch of men operate on a number of medium-sized farms, On a good many of the small places, no matter how good the harvest may be, the farmers have plenty of help in their own families without requiring any from outside sources; and those who have no sons or daughters able to work, generally get all necessary assistance from their neighbours. It is an old-time custom among them to lend each other a hand when difficulties crop up, when there is an accumulation or sudden excess of work. One will give his neighbour so many day's work, and the neighbour returns the obligation when occasion demands it. Those who employ outside labour as well pay the ruling rates in the district for ordinary work. On big farms hired labour is employed all the year round, and at harvesting time the number of hands is considerably increased. Modern machinery, however, economises in this direction.

Harvesting.

With a single stripper and winnower, the cost of harvesting wheat is about 4s an acre. When five strippers are used to one winnower, the wages of four or five men are saved. The combined harvester—a Victorian invention, and an expensive piece of machinery—makes a greater saving still. It strip's off the heads of the wheat, threshes the grain, cleans and bags it as it goes, treating altogether eight acres a day. It is worked by one man, who receives 7s a day and keep. Putting the keep at 2s 6d a day, sewing and odds and ends at 4s 6d, we get 14s as the cost of harvesting eight acres. Including horseflesh, carting and wear and tear of machinery, the cost could be set down at half a crown an acre. Wheat provides more employment in the preparation of the soil and in planting than in harvesting, though the grain gives a lot of work after it leaves the farm. On small areas the single-furrow plough is much in use, and a man who can do seven acres a week with it is a good worker. The double-furrow is equally common, and it is calculated that the cost of ploughing with this is about 6s an acre. On big fields multi-furrow ploughs are used.

The Crops.

Taking the whole State, good and bad years, wheat averages about 12 bushels to the acre. Maize under suitable conditions, yields up to 50 bushels an acre. The cost of the work from planting to harvesting this crop with hired labour is about 40s an acre; but a farmer who has family help and working early and late, makes it a good deal less. One of the most profitable crops is lucerne, which yields half a dozen cuttings a year for eight or ten years before it is necessary to plough up the ground again for another crop. Five tons an acre is considered a fair yield for a year. On these farms there is not much ploughing or other tilling after the crop has been sown at the start of operations. The main work is cutting and hay-making, which keeps many hands employed nearly all the year. It is a continual round of harvesting. Machinery is used almost throughout, from mowing to pressing—or chaff-cutting. It is light, clean work, but requires practised hands. Here the expert shows his skill in loading and in stack-building. Work among oaten hay is even more agreeable; the drying hay has a sweet scent, which lucerne has not. When hay-making—turning the cut with pitchforks and throwing it into little heaps—the men are served with afternoon tea in the fields. Once a crop has been cut, speed is necessary to get it in if the weather is uncertain, and so deftness is a first qualification in the farm hand in this branch of his work.

A Rush Time.

Harvest time is always a rush time, especially in wheat areas, which in the past has caused a good deal of trouble with rural workers who are employed only for that period. The casual hand objects to working at high tension from daylight till dark, when he sees the "sack" at the end of the job instead of a well-earned holiday. The crop, on the other hand, represents the farmer's whole year's labour, and it might be ruined by wet weather, or swept away in a few minutes by a bush fire, which is always threatening him in hot weather when the wheat fields are ripening, or ready for harvesting. For him it is an anxious time, and consequently he desires to utilise every moment of daylight. The success of his crop is never certain. A dry year may leave him in debt; while a rich harvest and high prices may have to pay for three hard years of toil.

The Tucker.

The harvest hands receive plenty of good, plain food: there is never any stinginess shown in the tucker bill; but their lodgings are not as good as they might be. The temporary employees have to accommodate themselves the best way they can. It they have no tents they have to pack into the barn or any old shed available, and make up bunks with whatever material they can find about the premises.

Side Lines.

Most farms specialise in some particular line of produce, but nearly every farm has several side lines. One of the most important of these is potatoes, which employs a good many hands in the digging season. On some places the tubers are ploughed out; at others they are dug up at sixpence a bag. Maize is sometimes shelled and bagged by piece-work also, and at a similar price. The farm hand who has spent a year or two on one farm, is generally capable of working on any farm, the diversity of crops grown and other work to be done giving him a wide experience. His work is never monotonous. He goes from one thing to another, some of it heavy, some of it very light; and if he works long hours in the planting and harvesting season, there is a period in every year when there is very little to do.</story>