<story title="The Cane Cutter" date="1915">
With the exception of a short season in New South Wales, in a restricted area, mainly confined to the Clarence River district, the cane cutter's field of operations lies in Queensland. In the early days of sugar growing, the mother State held pride of place. The first acre of cane, in fact, was grown at Bathurst about the year 1865, the acre producing about 220lbs. of sugar. Bathurst, however, was never seriously a cane growing district. The Northern Rivers was the only part of New South Wales where this crop was successfully grown on a large scale. Frost, which nips the top of tbe cane, and spoils the mature stalks, if it does not kill the young cane, was the drawback in the more southern parts. Even on the Clarence and Richmond Rivers it gave great trouble to growers. Many who embarked in the industry in these districts gave it up after a very few years, and went in for maize growing or for dairying. The ruins of several old mills, and others falling into decay on the Clarence River, bear evidence of an early promise that was not fulfilled.

N.S.W. and Queensland.

New South Wales as a sugar producer was at its zenith in 1897, when 18,194 acres were cut, yielding 320,276 tons of cane. As this is not an annual crop, being cut only every second year, there were some thousands of acres beside carrying unproductive cane. Since then there has been a rapid decline, whilst the acreage in the northern State has steadily increased year by year. For the seasons 1913-14 the total area under crop in the Commonwealth was 160,976 acres, of which 147,743, or 92 per cent., were cropped in Queensland. For the same period, the yield of sugar in the Commonwealth was 2,271,558 tons, of which quantity Queensland contributed 2,085,588 tons. Whilst the total product in New South Wales is small, the average yield per acre is much higher than in Queensland, being about 23½ tons to 16½. In 1913-14, which was a record season, the respective yields were 30 and 20 tons per acre.

The acre yield is a matter of considerable importance to the cane-cutter, for he is paid accordingly. It takes from 8 to 9½ tons of cane to produce one ton of sugar. The yield of sugar, of course, varies with the density of the juice, but may be set down at about 9 per cent. for an ordinary season.

Not an Annual Crop.

If we follow sugar from the planting to the refinery, we find numerous branches of industry, including distilling, which employs many tens of thousands of men. The cane cutter is one of the harvesters on the plantation, whose period of work is short, and strenuous, and, like shearing, comes but once a year. He can, however, engage in other work, though at less remunerative rates, in the same fields, for in the planting of crops a good deal of labour is required. It is calculated that clearing, planting and tending the first crop costs £15 an acre. Once established, the crop grows for six or eight years, being cut every second year. About four cuttings are thus yielded before it is necessary to replant. On most big farms crops are so planted that there are alternate cuttings every year. The mills require this regulation, or there would be a super abundance for crushing one season, and perhaps very little the next.

Kanakas.

Mr. Coghlan estimated the cost of growing cane at 2s 11d a ton with black labour, and 3s 5d a ton with white labour. In the northern State the kanaka has figured very prominently in connection with sugar production. He was recruited from the islands, being indented for a number of years at a mere pittance, including rough tucker and just bare covering in the way of clothes. By some recruiting was carried on under a system that would not always stand the light of day. What was known as black-birding, around which many an unsavoury story has been written, was rife in the days when the kanaka was the predominate cane-cutter. Some wild scenes were witnessed in northern towns in season, when kanaka gangs assembled in the evenings and on holidays. Sometimes there was a free fight between rival factions, and occasionally, when Queensland rum had flowed too freely, things became so serious that reinforcements of police had to be rushed to the place of disturbance to protect the property of the few whites, and prevent a local war.

Black and White Labour.

Black labour considerably predominated up to 1906. The following season the positions were reversed, on account of the bounty allowed by the Federal Government, and thereafter every year marked a greater ascendancy of white labour in the canefields. The following table is supplied by the Government Statistician for the season 1903-4:

 

N.S.W.
Tons. 

Q'nsland
Tons.  

Sugar produced by white labor

19,236

24,406

Sugar produced by black labor

2561

65,456

For the season 1913-14, ten years later, 17,240 tons were produced in New South Wales by white labour, and 55 tons by black labour; and in Queensland 198,437 tons by white labour, and 8759 tons by black.

Stripping.

The cane-cutting season begins in July and August, but stripping in preparation for cutting commences much earlier. All the leaves have to be stripped to the ground from the standing stalks. This work is done by hand, and it is a hot, unpleasant, task, for little air enters the dense field, and face and hands smart from cuts and scratches inflicted by the stiff, sharp-edged leaves, whilst the ground becomes heavily covered with the crackling thresh. The cane forms an excellent harbour for snakes, which the stripper encounters now and again entwined in the bunches or stools. Stripping is generally done by contract at a price per acre that varies according to the density of the growth. On some farms the lower leaves are stripped off as the cane grows, the leaves forming a mulch. The continually decaying vegetation also enriches the soil. The stools are comparatively clean by the time the final, stripping takes place. There is always considerable risk from fire, on account of which strippers are not allowed to smoke in or about the cane. The thresh is burnt off after cutting.

Prices.

The standing cane is sold to the mill or the sugar company, which employs the cutting gangs. The average price paid to the grower to 1911 was about 10s 6d a ton for the standing crop.

Besides this the employer of white labour received a bounty of £2 per ton of sugar, equal to about 4s 5d per ton of cane. In 1911 the planters received from 9s to 15s a ton, and a bounty of 6s. From a crop averaging anywhere about 20 tons to the acre, the planter obtains a very handsome return. In comparison with most other producers, he is in a fortunate position, for he does not have to harvest his crop, nor does he have to replant till after the third or fourth cutting. He can also obtain an advance on the young cane.

Cutting the Cane.

One gang of cutters may go from farm to farm, as shearers go from shed to shed. The contract price varies accordingly as the yield is heavy or light, the average paid being about 3s 3d a ton. All the cutting is done by hand. Though several attempts have been made to invent a machine for this purpose, none have so far succeeded. The cutter takes a single cane in one hand, chops it off near the root with a heavy knife, then lops off the top and throws it down. The tops are used in dry times for feeding stock, very good prices being obtained for them when other fodder is scarce. In very bad seasons much of the young cane is sold to local milk men, who pay about 30s a ton for it. This was done extensively in Queensland, in respect to the 1914-15 crops, the production of sugar for the subsequent seasons being thus materially affected.

Earnings.

Cane-cutting records and cane cheques are as much a matter of argument in sugar centres as shearers' tallies and earnings are in sheep country. From the Mossman in Queensland to the big Harwood mill on the Clarence, this matter is argued in and out of season. Some gangs cut out in three months or less, whilst others are almost continuously cutting for six or seven months. There is thus considerable variation in the actual working "seasons" of different gangs. Disputants do not always calculate on a time basis, and so the issue is frequently clouded. What is considered the biggest cheques for any season were made by W. Maher's gang on the Mulgrave, and by F. Toy's gang on the Clarence River. The first averaged £115 per man clear of tucker, the second £112 clear. The season of each of these gangs lasted about six months. Good cheques are consistently made year after year in the Mulgrave sugar fields. Four gangs on those plantations averaged over a hundred pounds a man in one season, whilst several others at the same time came very close to the century. Maher's gang was long noted in the district as uniformly good men, who hold the record of earning considerably over a hundred each, for three seasons in succession. Yet other gangs on a time basis have made better money. J. Johnson's gang, for instance, cleared £105 each in four and a half months on the Mossman—the North Queensland region where the employers of kanaka labour used to say the white man couldn't work in the cane field.

At North Kolan, Bundaberg district, in September, 1906, A. Chapman, operating in a crop estimated at from 26 to 32 tons to the acre, cut 9 tons 17 cwt. of cane, in 7½ hours. This constituted a record in that district for white labour.

When the Cutters Have Finished.

The work is heavy, requiring strong men. Exertion falls principally on wrists and back, as in shearing. In choosing a gang, the chief picks as uniform a team as possible, for the men share and share alike, and a slow or unskilled worker is a handicap to his fellows. They provide their own accommodation, usually tents, though on many of the small farms the farmers' barns or other sheds are available; and on most of the big Queensland plantations there are huts for the men.

After the cutters have finished, the field is strewn with a tangled mass of cane and thresh that is difficult to walk over. The cane is loaded into specially made carts, either loosely or in bundles, and conveyed to the riverside, unless the mill happens to be close to the plantation, where it is run down chutes into huge cane punts or barges. The carts are provided by the mill or the company, but the planter has to find the horses and do the carting. A good many men are employed on every field in carting and clearing up, and in the transport of the cane to the mill. The punts, sometimes a string of them one behind the other, are hauled down the river by a steam launch. Loading and unloading the punts is strenuous work, but when the one lot of men does both, there is a pleasant interval between the two operations. Work among cane, from field to mill, is full of interest. The pay is always good for the willing worker, and a gang that has given satisfaction has the privilege of returning season after season.</story>