<story title="A Sport of the Track" date="1915">
Far out, where the racecourse is indicated by a few sticks standing, in a wide circle, the tops of them wrapped in newspaper to prevent short-sighted jockeys from getting lost on the way round, and where the grandstand, if there is any such thing at all, resembles a henroost without a roof, and the judge's box is a stump or a packing case, you meet a man who is a race-horse owner and trainer without appearing to be either. A shrewd person generally, a good horseman, and a good judge of horses; but you might take him to be anything from a boundary rider to a stock inspector. He travels extensively, and on the road he is just the ordinary mounted traveller who is looking for a billet. Though he might look hard up, it is rarely that he is without a good deal of money in his pockets. It is part of his business at times to wear a seedy appearance. He stays at the hotels by the wayside and in little towns, but no matter how many may be drinking there, he contrives always to keep sober. At such places he gets information about coming race meetings and about horses in the district. In all such matters he is well informed, and though he is known to a few here and there outside his home latitude, there is seldom anything known about the quadrupeds he is travelling with.

His Outfit.

He has generally two horses, occasionally three. Outbackers are sometimes suspicious of a third horse, for they have bumped a flyer in that animal too often. It is not an indispensable to the customary traveller, whose objective is work. So the man who is looking for races, and wants to pick up a bit in occasional matches, travels lightly and as much as possible with only two horses. One he rides, the other he packs. If he rides his racer, he doesn't ride him very far in a day, and if he packs him he takes care that the swag and campware isn't a burden that the animal would knock up under. He never goes out of a walk, and rarely averages a greater distance per day than a footman covers. If there is a race meeting not far off, the footman would easily beat him on the road. His horses are grass fed, though he gives Mulga Bill, the racer, other feed when he can get it cheaply. He is careful of his route, and particular where he turns out for the night, always giving more thought to the horses than to his own comfort and convenience.

From a Bridle to a £10 Prize.

There are many little race-meetings held outback at wayside hotels, and at other places where picnickers congregate for a day's outing, where he may win anything from a bridle to a ten-pound prize. For these Mulga Bill begins his preparation on the road. He has a gallop in the morning on some level flat, or straight along the highway, after which he is well rubbed down, and then hobbled out, or tethered on a patch of dry mitchell grass, until it is time for the afternoon exercise. He gets that in making the journey to the next camp. Suitable grass may not always be handy, and where the "sport" knows or a dearth in front he cuts a bagful and carries it with him. When he has arrived in the vicinity of the races, he pitches camp in a secluded corner and gives his whole time to training. All entries being made on the ground, it isn't necessary for him to put in an appearance until the day of the races.

"Got a Bit of Foot."

However, he mostly arrives at the depot or thereabouts, the day before. Mulga Bill is then carrying the pack, and he looks rough, with his coat brushed the wrong way, his tail full of burrs and grass-seed, and his mane unkempt and matted, for that is a part of the grooming that is purposely neglected. The owner looks the reverse of prosperous. From the talk about him, he hears, apparently for the first time, that there is going to be some racing in the neighbourhood, and inquires if a traveller might have a cut for some of the prizes. He's got an idea that old packhorse of his has got "a bit of foot," and he'd like to try him. Mulga Bill being an old warrior who has scored in good company, the trial is very often a profitable one.

Sometimes the prizes at such meetings are too small for our friend, while there might be plenty of money to pick up among the local sports. So he rides a bad race, and comes nowhere. Circulating subsequently about the crowd, he is loud in his excuses for the animal's defeat. Wearing a mystified air, and being the worst-dressed man present, he generally succeeds in getting himself laughed at. He is a good actor, this man, who lives partly on his wits, and partly by means of Mulga Bill. Eventually he challenges a winning owner to a match for ten or twenty pounds. Near the end of a merry day, this challenge is not infrequently accepted, and in more cases than not Mulga Bill wins; for his owner makes pretty certain what he is running against before he risks his money.

Surreptitious Preparation.

For the regular meetings at little way back towns, where only grassfed horses are allowed to compete, Mulga Bill has to be paddocked for a couple of weeks or more before the races. An official keeps an eye on the paddocks to see that the rules are not being broken. The owner of Mulga Bill keeps an eye on the official, and if there are good prizes to win, he takes no chances. Feed is smuggled into the paddock at night, and however cunning the official is, he contrives somehow that Mulga Bill's training is not neglected. If no opportunity is offered for a gallop in daylight, he gives him a spin down some quiet valley after dark. To do this, he has to make an opening in the fence; and after using that entrance two or three times, he makes a new opening at another place, so as not to make a beaten track, and to avoid being caught. It means a lot of trouble, but it is all a part of his business. Nor does he stop always at working his own horse. If he gets a chance he will give some of the others a gallop, too. It is seldom a difficult problem to find a congenial spirit when he wants a jockey to ride with him. The locals who are interested in sport, and men of the track who know the district and want to pick up a pound or two, are all eager to know the merits of the various horses. It is a proceeding, however, that is never safe, for half the owners have suspicions against some of their fellows, and one now and again makes an unexpected visit to the paddock. That isn't always satisfactory either, for when the honest man happens to meet the rogue at the enclosure, there are mutual recriminations, and the honest sport is liable to bring suspicion on to himself.

Bets and Sweeps.

Anyhow, the owner of Mulga has a fairly accurate measure of his opponents before he comes to measure strides with them. Whether he can win the big handicap or not is immaterial to him, providing he knows what can win. Another man's horse can sometimes win as much money for him as his own, for there is not much stiff running among backblock amateur sports. The professional bookmaker is unknown on the courses where they race, but there is generally a sweep, the tickets being auctioned after the drawing, and the amount pooled. At an ordinary meeting this pool might be worth from twenty to fifty pounds. A knowledge of the contesting horses is valuable in this kentucky auction. It enables Mulga's owner at times to hedge when he is doubtful about his own chances.

Then there are perhaps two or three double books among local sports, the odds being usually about £5 to 5s; and straight-out wagers can be made among enthusiasts.

Carbines in Disguise.

A shrewd party with a reliable dark horse can have a very good day at one of these little meetings. He falls in now and again, despite precautions, and is surprised to see Mulga Bill desperately chasing a cloud of dust when he was expected to romp in an easy winner. There are odd flyers among the stockhorses outback, and there are a good many track sports wandering about with Carbines in disguise. Some of them are racehorses that have made a name on the turf, and have been disqualified for crook running in some big eastern or southern town. Such a horse, unless suited for stud purposes, is thereafter only useful as a hack in his old haunts. The track sport buys him cheaply, takes him outback, and, running him under another name, scoops the pool from the average muster of grassfed hacks that are opposed to him. He doesn't stick to one name, except at registered meetings in districts where he has become known. The owner, too, has as many different names as his horse.

Stolen Horses.

Years ago racehorses were frequently stolen from eastern towns. Not third-raters, or in and out performers; nor was a stallion often interfered with, as such an animal was too conspicuous for a traveller to be going about with. The thief picked some first-class mare or gelding which had proved itself in good company or country courses. The racer was taken from the stable or paddock at night, and ridden away into some lonely part of the bush, where it would be kept awhile, until it lost the sheen of its coat, and, gorged with grass, looked more like a traveller's hack. The brand in the meantime would be faked, and perhaps its appearance would be further altered by means of a star or a white stocking. Then it would be taken into the back regions by unfrequented tracks, and, once there, it was safe to race in its natural aspect.

Shearer and Drover Too.

The track sport is not always bent on racing. Meetings do not occur frequently enough for that. Between times, he engages in various occupations. He is ostensibly looking for work all the time. His favourite pursuits are droving, shearing and mustering, though now and again he will take a billet of boundary-riding, which enables him to give his horses a spell, or to train them at his leisure if he so desires. The boundary billet is convenient when there is a race-meeting two or three months ahead. Droving carries him over country on good wages, and gives him an opportunity of making a bit at many centres he passes through. He in not the sort of person who studies a drover's convenience; he is ready to drop out anywhere. The shearing shed is generally profitable to him in two ways. He makes a good cheque at shearing, and generally at the races when the shed cuts out. Shearers' races occur all over the back country, particularly at the cut-out of a big shed, when there is some time to spare before the next shed starts, and when two or three ordinary sheds in the neighbourhood cut-out about the same time. As nearly all the competing horses belong to shearers and rouseabouts, and are straight off the grass, the chief races are often a gift to him, for here as elsewhere, he does not neglect his equine hero of the track.</story>