<story title="The Wayside Publican" date="1915">
There is not a great deal of difference between one publican and another to the traveller until he gets to the wayside hotel, or to the caravansary that constitutes the principal part of what is known outback as a "one-horse-town"—a place that mainly consists of one hotel, one store, one house, a lockup, and a Chinaman's garden. Then he finds a type of man who might be anything from a butcher to a road contractor. On a far-back roadside there may not be enough traffic, or sufficient population around him, to bring him enough business to keep him prosperously employed all the year round. He is, therefore, often a rugged working man, who will leave some hard toil to go behind the bar, like a navvy straight off the road, to serve a casual customer. Generally, his wife looks after the hotel while he is at work. When engaged on a contract he is only on hand at night, and at times only at weekends. That is in the slack season, for he really has what he calls a busy period, the time when mustering, shearing, or other local work is going on that employs a number of men; and then a man's presence is necessary in the hotel.

On other roads the mail coach passes two or three times a week. At some of the wayside places it arrives in the day; at other places at all times of the night. Passengers want refreshments, and, of course, the publican is ready for business at all hours. Perhaps he is the mail change groom, and whilst his wife attends to driver and passengers, he attends to the horses.

In certain situations he is also postmaster or receiving-officer; and may, in addition, be general storekeeper, teamster, cattle-buyer and drover. It all depends on the commercial and industrial activity in his neighbourhood. The duller the locality the greater the multiplicity of his occupations. In places at certain times of the year his turnover might amount to £100 a month; and between whiles he might be a whole week raking in sixpence.

Starting in Business.

A selection is frequently the site of an hotel. Perhaps a small diggings has broken out in the neighbourhood, or a growing traffic on the highway has prompted the selector to enlarge his dwelling to the necessary dimensions of a wayside hotel, or rebuild by the road, having first ascertained that there would be no police objection to his application for a license. It does not require much of a building to conform with the regulations. The wayside pub is neither commodious nor elegant, and as the wholesale houses accept promissory notes from almost any bush licensee, it does not require much capital to start business as an hotelkeeper. The building and furnishing of the house practically sums up the whole of his outlay at the start, plus the cost of license, which varies from £15 to £30 per year, according to locality. Yards and stables are necessary, but these are built by himself with rough timber in the same way as selectors build their yards and outhouses; and most of the work is left until after he has opened the hotel, and is then done in his spare time.

A Handy Groom.

If he has no big girls of his own, he keeps one general servant, whom he pays a pound a week, and where he does a fair regular business he keeps a groom as well. This man, who is paid about 25s a week, has to do a lot of the rough work of the hotel, look after horses, milk cows, cart wood and water, cut timber and put up fencing, help to paint the hotel and vehicles when such require a new coat, also help the publican with the shoeing of horses, dig the garden, muster cattle, and attend to many other miscellaneous small jobs. It has happened more than once that this handy sort of groom has himself in time become a publican. A good character, backed up by a capital of about £300, is all that is required to set him up in that position.

The Travellers' Rest.

The wayside pub has an appeal to most travellers, to whom its lights at the close of a long, wearying day are as the welcoming lights of home, signalling from some far hill that there awaits him rest, comfort and refreshment. In some districts the bush pub acquired an unenviable reputation in years past, through the practices of a few unscrupulous persons who would stop at nothing short of plain robbery to possess themselves of a travellers' cheque, and through the vile adulterated liquor that was sold over the bars when there was no inspection to speak of. There were seldom any soft drinks to be had, beyond home-made hop beer, carriage rates being too high to make soft drinks profitable. Only a few strong liquors were kept in stock. Being long distances back from port or railway station, carrying rates for all goods were necessarily heavy, and the price of drinks and meals had to be regulated accordingly. The goods, too, were pretty frequently sampled on the road. Casks of beer would be tapped—mostly under the hoops; and on the course of a long, lonely road something was bound to fall occasionally on a case and smash a bottle or two; sometimes they broke through being violently thrown together without damage to the case. The contents would be caught in a bucket, and appropriated by the teamsters. This alone was expensive; and it all had to be made good, and a big margin of profit provided for, reckoning on legitimate sales, by the addition of water, black tea, tobacco juice, and in other ways more or less openly practised.

Backblock Grog.

Rum is the most profitable tipple to the backblock publican; it "makes," and is a good patient in the doctor's hands. When it gave out under exceptional circumstances, in some of the rough places, in the old days, an imitation made from chemicals, or an extract of boiled down casks, strengthened with pain-killer, methylated spirits, or anything of that kind was substituted. Much of the wine sold was made from chemicals. The Pure Foods Act has done away with that, except where an odd genius practises it in his own cellar. Whiskey was not so easy to adulterate. A fairly good liquor was served out to any sober man who was likely to be a judge; but as he progressed through the various stages of intoxication he went through a course of bottles containing as many grades and qualities of alleged whisky till he was finally drinking a weak concoction, resembling the water the glasses had been washed in. Backblock grog of every kind bore a bad reputation. Hard drinkers wanted it strong, and heavy carriage rates didn't allow much profit on the best brands. But there were other ways of making up for that.

Assorted Bottles.

In moderately good hosteleries one would almost invariably find what was apparently the same blend of spirit kept in separate bottles, which were used in accordance with the condition or social standing of the customer. There would be the magistrate's or sergeant's bottle, the squatter's bottle, the boundary-riders' bottle, the drunks' bottle, and the blacks' bottle. The latter contained a vile mixture composed of the dregs from the glasses, and sometimes included a promiscuous blending of every liquor that had been served out for a month past. The drunks' bottle contained mostly water; occasionally it contained something that put the recipient to sleep, when he might be conveniently stowed away in the dead-house—minus his cheque. That was considerably diminished, if not wiped out, for him while he slept. When he came to his senses he found a horrifying array of bottles strown about him, and concluded that he had been having a glorious time. He felt bad enough, anyhow, to have swallowed a distillery.

The Days of "Lambing-Down."

In the days of lambing-down this class of backblock publican grew fat and independent. He dispensed some astonishing mixtures to the unfortunates who came to soak at his shanty, known as tanglefoot, snake juice, paralysers, double-distilled lightning, and mulga rum. At that time it was customary for a man to hand his cheque to the publican with an injunction to notify him when it was "cut out." Then the customer would proceed to paint things red; every available man within cooee would be called up to assist in the process; and after a few "stiffeners" the whole lot of them would be spread out in various attitudes about the place. Then empty bottles would be dropped surreptitiously around them, and especially in the quarters the cheque-man was supposed to occupy. Not infrequently a man would come in with a pair of good horses and a first-class outfit, and a fortnight later tramp away with a scanty swag on his back, and a head like a volcanic mountain. Even after the days of lambing-down had passed, men with cheques were still beguiled into squandering habits by the wayside. The wily publican would hail a passing traveller to inquire about some fictitious team or horseman, then drift into conversation, criticise his horses, try probably to make a deal of some sort, offering special inducements on various prextexts—and eventually the unwary traveller was lured to the bar—where he stopped. This kind of publican had a special brand of intoxicant that was guaranteed to stop anybody at the second round.

Shearing Time.

When shearing was on at any shed within a radius of ten miles or so, the shanty-keeper sent out a waggonette on Saturday afternoon, and particularly at the cut-out, for the convenience of any of the men "who would like a run down for a change." It was not uncommon to see the daughter of the shanty on the seat behind the driver, who lost no opportunity of expatiating on the delights of a dance they were going to have at night; and by this means a good many shearers and rouseabouts were induced to improve Saturday night's business at the hotel.

By these various means the wayside hotel got a bad name that has been hard to live down in the lonely parts of the country. But supervision is more strict to-day; and houses and people have altered with the times. The average wayside hotel is a respectable, well kept place. Compared with city hotels, it is rough in its general arrangements in remote localities; but the cheque-man, especially a bushman, knows that he is a great deal safer there when he is drinking than in some of the houses in Sydney.</story>