<story title="The Carrier" date="1915">
"Carrying is not what it used to be,'' say the old teamsters on the road. Others tell you that there is as much carrying to do and as much money to be made at it to day as in the "good time" that the old teamster looks back upon. Of course, he has memories of Gulgong and other golden havens that made carrying itself a golden job. There were tracks on which he could charge £30 a ton for short trips; and he could take out a load of his own and sell it at about 500 per cent, profit. Certainly that was a good time, but gold rushes always are good for carriers. They don't last, and such a phase may recur anywhere and at any time. On the old tracks in well-settled districts railways have made a difference to regular carrying, though only in the shortening of trips in those districts, and of extending the out-tracks some hundreds of miles farther into the interior. In place of the traffic that the railways have taken, there are wheat, wool and other important products that have to be carried by team to the sidings and stations; and out to the numerous hamlets, townships, wayside pubs and stores, squattages and scattered settlements, there is much loading to be taken back. Railways can't go everywhere, and, though many of the settlers have their own teams, there will always be work for the professional carrier.

One noticeable change that has taken place on the carrying roads is in the nature of the teams. At one time these were principally bullocks — on certain roads one met little else but long strings of struggling oxen; but nowadays horse-teams largely predominate, with a few camel teams on dry tracks. Horses require more care, and have to be fed on chaff and grain in good seasons as well as bad; but they are much quicker than bullocks. Motor power, which is quicker still, is in places ousting the horse in turn. Nevertheless, there will always be work on the roads for the horse, just as there is still work for teams in the city of Sydney. There is also less wear and tear on the part of the horse-driver in exhorting his team to pull. To the man who has driven horses for any length of time the bullock is impossible. As a means of transit he places that animal on the very lowest rung, a pioneer of the roads that is now more particularly associated with timber-getters. Neither has the average man any high opinion of him. He considers bullock-driving one of the worst jobs invented.

Bullock Teams.

Some of the old veterans stick doggedly to the cloven hoof. Use has become second nature, and practice has made them skilled in the art of driving. Not always; for it is not everybody who can learn to drive bullocks. It is not as simple as driving horses. You will see teamsters go up and down on dry and poorly-grassed roads; and keep their cattle in good trim all the time. Other drivers lose part of their teams, while the remainder are poor and crisscrossed with whip marks, and make slower travelling, though they may be crossing better country and with lighter loads. Notice them also in a bog. One man may be stuck for hours, unable to get a budge on his waggon. Another takes the whip, straightens the team, and at a word or two they reef that waggon straight out. You never see an expert with a scraggy team. A judge of workers in the first place, he takes them as quietly as possible, and studies their comfort more than his own. They show the character of their drivers in their looks and actions. These are as docile and tractable as pet cows, contentedly chewing their cud when being yoked, or having a "blow" in the shade, while those of the incompetent are resentful and sulky. They fret under harsh treatment, and so lose condition, even on good pasture. At a pinch they are dead failures. The other man, looking at a bog or a steep hill, will say confidently, "they'll take her through, or they'll pull her to pieces," meaning the waggon. This man takes a pride in his whole turnout. He likes to have everything of the best, and keeps it spic and span. His ambition is to have the best table-top on the road, and to carry a bigger load than the champions of other highways, for there are champions in this humble walk of life as in the most exalted.

In the Old Days.

In the old days bullock camps were plentiful along the main "inside" roads, teams going out with loading, and others coming in empty or with squattage produce, all turning out regularly at certain places, perhaps a good waterhole or a spot contiguous to a good grass paddock. Many a yarn is told of dodging the squatter when the only water or feed was in his paddocks. Perhaps the bells would be put on a few of the most restless beasts, which would be left outside, while the others were turned in at a different point. This would be late at night, and they would be mustered up before daylight. Often they were watered right under the noses of those watching to catch them. One trick was worked by a teamster going a mile or two away in a paddock with a bell, which he would jingle here and there under cover of bushes, and, while the boundary rider rode about looking for the supposed bullock, the bellman's mate slipped in and watered the team.

Life in Camp.

With loading for mining fields and back block hotels, life in camp at times was convivial to a boisterous degree; and there is still enough latitude allowed for "old Bill" to keep up his birthday on far tracks. Diggers who are working good claims, besides paying liberal carriage rates, are not averse to a case or two being tapped, and publicans generally don't make a fuss about casks being sampled within a reasonable measure. Odd teamsters, in getting over a very bad road in the height of summer, reckon it is the publican's turn to shout a couple of pints at every camping-place. For all that, carrying on far inland roads is a hard life. After a long, wearying day, the carrier has probably to drive his animals miles back at night to water, or take them ahead for grass. Often he takes his blankets and tucker and camps with them, bringing them back to the waggon early in the morning; other times he has to carry feed (for horses) and cut scrub (for bullocks).

In wet weather the roads are boggy; and then there are heavy sandhills, through which he has often to shovel long trenches to get out. He cooks and washes for himself; and while his damper is baking you will find him chopping out a yoke or repairing harness. That, too, is usually his Sunday recreation.

Families on the Road.

In parts of Queensland it is not uncommon for his wife and family to travel with him. The wife is provided with a tilted cart, in which she can reach the night camp while he is getting over the first two or three miles. A mob of goats is driven with the spare bullocks, or horses, by one or two of the children, and swinging under the waggon is a coop of fowls. These are let out every evening, being driven back into the coop when all is ready to start again next day. In such cases there is a cheery fireside, though it be under a tree, waiting for him at the day's end; the little ones, who have been playing about for hours, run to meet him as children do in other places, and the life is much more pleasant. It is not, however, the ideal life for a woman, though sometimes the carrier's wife prefers it to living alone in a town and having her husband at home for a few days only in the course of months.

Selectors.

Many of the carriers are selectors. With a comfortable home and good paddocks well out on a profitable-carrying road, the work is eminently satisfactory to the teamster. He has always a few animals spelling on the selection, with which he can freshen his team when passing up and down. He will turn out for a week there; if the roads are not to his liking the halt will probably last for several weeks. If the selection is bringing in money he may spend a good deal of his time there. Now and again he temporarily retires from carrying, but always he has the team to fall back on when there is nothing doing at home. His sons go with him as soon as they are old enough to round up the team animals; and by-and-bye they go with the teams alone. Some selectors have half a dozen or more teams, worked by father and sons, and sons of neighbouring selectors. The home-coming of the teams are important events at these places; the old home that has been silent and lonely for months becomes suddenly a place of life and bustle. In average seasons driver and driven keep in good trim, and when that condition prevails there is not much care on the premises.

Rates and Earnings.

In shearing and harvesting times they make good money, some of these men, for there is plenty of carrying both ways, and always they have the selection behind them. "Mother and the girls,'' as a rule, manage the selection in the absence of the men. Carrying rates depend, of course, on the distance and the nature of the country to be travelled. On the latter, too, depends the weight of the load when plenty of loading is to be got. Twenty-five tons of wool have been carried on one waggon down the stiff roads that lie at the back o' Bourke. In the wheat districts there is often competition in this respect between horse teams and bullock teams. In the north-western part of New South Wales, where all transport is by horse, bullock and camel teams, £6 a ton was the ruling rate before the war on a 200-mile road. The trip occupied from three to six weeks, and occasionally it took three months—according to the condition of the team and the road. Merchandise for stores, hotels and squattages were carried on the outward trip, and mainly wool on the return journey. Between the shearing seasons there was often nothing but a few parcels and empty beer barrels on the return.

Reckoning the round trip, with waiting and necessary spells, to occupy three months, and the average load at 8½ tons each way, the carrier would earn £408 for his year's work. With one 25-ton load going in, and light loading going out, he would make half that amount in a couple of months; but such loads are record-breakers, only occasionally heard of.

With a good table-top waggon and horses, his turnout costs about £500. His expenses include feeding, wages, license, repairs and keep. Offsiders, and employees engaged to drive extra teams, are paid £2 to £2 12s a week and keep. At certain tanks and wells he has to pay for watering. Occasionally he loses a horse, or a bullock which has to be replaced. On a dry, barren road his losses in this respect might easily outbalance his receipts. Generally, when he ventures upon such a road, however, it is by the inducement of extra rates and unlimited time for the trip.

Bound to Time.

Unless the circumstances are exceptional, the carrier is not infrequently bound to time. The Darling River, for instance, is a precarious stream, and wool has to be got down while there is water enough to float the barges. It is here where the horse and camel men get the pull on the bullock driver. In dry times they have a far better chance of getting through. Their charges may be higher, but they can sign for a quicker delivery. The carrier is bound to time also with the outward loading for squattages, stores and hotels. The penalty for dilatoriness is up to £1 a day for every day he is behind contract time, or else it is so much per ton per day that is deducted from his account. When he has lost stock on a bad trip, a heavy fine on top of it hits him hard. In his efforts to keep up to time under difficulties he is apt to bring about a catastrophe that costs him dear. Though he has loading on board for several squattages, he receives little assistance from the squattages through which he passes. His thirsty animals have to go without water many a night when there is a full tank or dam close by. Water is valuable in Western parts, and every hole is rigorously guarded. When he is caught surreptitiously helping himself in the night, the chances are that his animals will be rounded up and yarded till morning. The average driver feels for his brute slaves, and driving them through a long, hot day after such an experience is to him a bitter task. The camel can go long stages without water, and his great reach enables him to feed on bushes whose sustaining green leaves are out of reach of any other animal on the route.</story>