<story title="Shed Hands." date="1915">
The shearer regards the rouseabout as an inferior person. In the majority of cases the former objects to being boxed with the latter in the same hut. His pet name for him is "Loppy," or "Wop-wop" (a name suggested by the sound of his moccasins along the board); and he speaks of both as "shearers and labourers." As a matter of fact, there is more hard labour in shearing than there is in rouseabouting, and it is the dirtiest work in the shed. But the shearer is more independent. The rouseabout is paid by the day, or by the week, and consequently is more directly under the orders of the squatter. The boss makes use of him about the shed in wet weather, when the shearers are idle. Still he has an advantage in that his wages are running on, while they are earning nothing. The more wet weather the better for the rouseabout, the worse for the shearer. In an ordinary shed the numbers of each are about equal; but whereas shearers are skilled workers, rouseabouts, though they need some experience, are classed as unskilled workers, and include boys as young as 14 years of age in their ranks. Excepting in small sheds, they have a separate hut, and a separate cook.

Musterers.

Rouseabouts are the generally useful hands employed at the shed during shearing time. They may do any work required to be done about the shed; but act chiefly as yardmen, pickers-up, wool rollers, piece pickers, and penners-up. There are other shed hands as well as these, as the musterers, pressers, wool classer, engineer (in machine sheds), and the shed overseer. The musterers are generally included with the rouseabouts, and tucker at the rouseabouts' hut, though sometimes they have their meals in the kitchen at the homestead. Their ranks consist of the permanent sheep men on the place, with a few extra hands. They muster the sheep on the run, and bring them to the yards, and take the shorn animals from the shed back to the paddocks. The permanent hands are employed in this work because a knowledge of the run is an advantage, if not a necessity. On a big run they have sometimes to camp out. They ride to the distant pastures in the afternoon, and start mustering early next morning. They reach the shed towards sun down, and yard enough of the sheep for a day's shearing, the rest being placed in a convenient paddock. It is the musterers' duty to see that the shearers never run short of sheep. Occasionally they are out till after dark, and they work on Sunday as well as on Monday; but they have their slack days in between.

The Pay.

The rouseabouts' minimum rates are 37s 6d per week with keep for adults; 30s per week with keep for boys between 18 and 21; and 25s per week with keep for boys under 18. Their working hours are about the same as the working hours of shearers. The penners-up have to start earlier in order to have sheep ready for the morning run; but they finish earlier, except when unshorn sheep have to be let out at the end of the day's shearing, and they have a good deal of leisure time through the day. When a pen has been filled, no more sheep are put into it until the last one has been caught from it. The penner-up watches the pens and keeps the race filled in readiness behind them. It is only when several pens cut out at the same time that he has to hurry for a few minutes. The penner-up usually acts as slaughter-hand for the cook, for which service he is paid 6d per sheep.

Wool-Rollers and Pickers-Up.

The wool-rollers and pickers-up do not start till the fleeces begin to fall; but they are occupied for a little while after the cessation of shearing. Next to the shed overseer and the classer, the wool-rollers have the cleanest and easiest job in the shed. They work at a long table, one or more on each side, skirting and rolling the fleeces. The pickers-up, who are generally boys, are kept busy, picking up the fleeces as they fall, and throwing them out on the table. They are bossed by nearly everybody in the shed. If the fleeces are not thrown out straight and clean on the table the wool-rollers grumble; and if the wool is not picked up quickly from the shearers' stand there is complaint in that quarter. The piece pickers, working at other tables, sorting out first, second, and stained pieces, occasionally find fault also—when pieces are not dumped just where they are wanted, or when unsorted gets mixed with the sorted heaps through the hurrying of the pickers-up. The latter have also to keep the board swept, to answer the calls for tar, and gather up the belly wool, and put it into a loose bale as it is shorn. They are the last to leave the shed at the end of the day, for they have to sweep the floor, and clean out the locks from under the wool table. On Saturdays, after the last bell, they have to wash down the board and the wool tables.

The Cook.

When the shed hands have their own hut, and are found, the cook is provided by the squatter, and is paid at the rate of 4s per man per week, or a minimum of £2 10s a week, and keep. In the joint mess, when shearers and rouseabouts tucker together, the squatter pays his proportionate share of the mess account and cook's wages. In some sheds an allowance for tucker is made, and the men elect their own cook in the same way that the shearers do. Cooking in the rouseabouts' hut is not considered as good a job by the average cook as cooking in the shearers' hut, for when the rouseabouts are found, he has to please them, and please the squatter too—and they are two bosses with opposite views of the tucker question. It is customary at both huts to feed and give rations to all travellers who call. This adds to the mess account. Pastoralists are not unanimously in favour of it, and the cook, however desirous he is of pleasing the conjoint boss, is never on firm ground. When he applies for the position of shearers' cook, he is judged by his table and his board rate; and in the other hut the rouseabouts, when found, consider only the table, whilst the pastoralist, as a rule looks seriously at his previous mess accounts. In slack times there are more travellers than usual, and the cook finds it impossible to keep down expenses. It is sought to distribute the callers fairly between the two huts; but it often happens that one hut gets more than its share, and then the cook in that hut says nasty things about his brother over the way. The shearers' cook does well and can drive from shed to shed with his buggy and pair, but his rough boarding-house requires good management, and causes him a good deal of worry.

Learning to Shear.

The rouseabouts, especially those working on or about the board, take every opportunity of practising their hands at shearing. They shear in the smoke-o intervals, and in the lunch hour, each under the instructions of a veteran on the board, who gets his sheep. Some hard old ewe is generally given to the learner, and the shearing of that animal is the hardest work he does in the shed. He discovers at the outset that holding the sheep in the proper position is not as easy as it looks. His victim kicks and struggles, so that he thinks he has chanced upon the most obstinate and rebellious beast on the run. Then the shears stick into the skin, and poke out through the wool. He takes skin off in places, and leaves half the wool on in other places. Instead of striking a full, clean blow, as he has seen the shearers doing so easily and quickly, his shears jib in the wool, and persist in nibbling only with the points. To the uninitiated, watching the graceful, sweeping blows of an expert, shearing is apparently as easy as cutting grass. Learning it is a diabolically painful process. The novice is expected to take off his first fleece without stopping or straightening his back. His wrist is the first part of him that begins to weaken. His back soon follows, despite the all-day exercise he has in stooping to pick up fleeces and pieces. However, he gets to the end of the task in the course of time. His fleece is broken, and the late owner of it is a pitiable-looking object. Still, the worst is past, and day by day he improves until he considers himself advanced enough to give up rouseabouting, and go shearing. Some get the knack quickly, others never get beyond a moderate daily tally. Dan Cooper, one of the fastest Queensland shearers, began in the sheds as a rouseabout, and on his second day at shearing, he shore one hundred sheep. That is a performance that is very rarely accomplished. In many sheds a couple of stands are set apart for learners. It is here where the novice, if he has had little practice before, suffers the pains of apprenticeship. After he has hacked through a few woollies, he is a puffing, perspiring; blood-stained streak of misery, praying for the day's end and glorious rest. Minutes seem like hours, and he struggles along, adding to his aches and pains, till finally, he leans against the pen, a limp and dejected wreck. The next day is one of agony. His wrist is stiff and sore, and he can scarcely stoop. After nearly a week of this sort of misery he may shear about 25 in a day. Then his numerous physical ailments begin to leave him, and he has a notion that if he lives long enough, he will one day shear a hundred in eight hours. Before long the muscles become accustomed to the work, the shears take long continuous bites, and the sheep—so awkward and annoying at first—drop easily into their proper positions, and he sets in confidently to sail after the century.

Of the shed hands the pressers have the heaviest work, the shed overseer the lightest. Two men work as mates at the press, and they turn out, if there is no waiting for wool, about 20 bales a day by hand. The rate for greasy wool by hand press is 4½d per cwt., or 1s 3d per bale; if dumping included, 6d per cwt., or 1s 7½d per bale; by power 3d per cwt., or 9¾d per bale, and if dumping is included, 4d per cwt., or 1s 1d per bale. For weighing and branding the bales an additional 2d a bale is paid. Under the ward, if the presser, through want of a continuous supply of wool, makes less than £3 5s per week at these rates, the employer has to make up the deficiency.

Shed Overseer and Wool-Classer.

The pressers share either in the shearers' or rouseabouts' mess; but the shed overseer, usually known as the man over the board, and the wool classer tucker at the homestead. The shed overseer, who receives £5 a week, superintends shearing operations, keeps time, and counts out the shorn sheep. The wool-classer is paid at the rate of one pound per thousand fleeces. Under him are the wool-rollers and piece-pickers. He likes a large board, and a fast team of shearers. A shed of 20 pens, averaging a hundred a day, gives him £11 a week. He hasn't many weeks in a shed, but if he has half a dozen sheds of that size he earns a very good cheque in the season.

Other workers among sheep are the crutchers, who operate on draggy sheep before they are shorn. This is work at which the amateur shearer can train his muscle—and on some runs there is a good deal of it to do. The pay, with rations, is 4s 6d per 100 for crutching between the legs only, 6s per 100 for all other crutching. When the crutchers find themselves, they are paid 3s 6d per 100 for crutching between the legs only, or 11s per day, and for all other crutching 5s per 100, or 11s per day. Though the woollies are quickly disposed of, the work is heavy on the operators, on account of the large number of sheep that have to be caught and handled in a day.</story>