<story title="Gum-Getters" date="1916">
An Australian botanical oddity is the grass-tree, known to science as Xanthorrhea hastilis. It came into prominence at the beginning of the war, from the fact that its chief product—the resin-like gum it exudes—was used in Germany in the manufacture of high explosives. German firms were the largest buyers of this product, large quantities being shipped from Sydney and Brisbane for several years before the embargo was placed on its export to the enemy country in 1914. The resin is converted into picric acid, the powerful and most efficient component in many of the explosives employed as agents of destruction. The manufacture of it is said to be cheap and simple, and it has been claimed as an advantage that on exploding it gives forth suffocating fumes. The German buyers were happily in unison in letting it be known that they were buying the resin for the purpose of making a cheap varnish. It did occur to some thoughtful Australians that the varnish must have jumped suddenly into great favour a little while before war was declared, for the resin was in eager demand, and the price had quadrupled in a few months.

Grass-tree resin, however, is applied to other and better uses than destruction, for it is an important material in many industries, including the making of varnish. In other countries it is used extensively for polishes, waterproof leather-dressings, floor paints, sealing-waxes, high-class metal laquers, size for paper manufacturers, and in perfumery and soap-making. The French were probably the first to discover its explosive properties, for they experimented with it as far back as 1870. The gum was washed with alcohol, in which it is soluble, and then transformed into picric acid by the addition of nitric acid, the product being used in a mixture intended as a gun powder substitute for small arms.

About 1908 a syndicate was granted rights by the Queensland Department of Lands to utilise the grass-trees on an area 400 miles long by 100 miles wide for the purpose of manufacturing alcohol. It was stipulated that the alcohol, which was extracted by a patent process, was not to be used for human consumption. The spirit was intended for industrial purposes, especially for motors.

The Tree and Where it Grows.

The tree is plentiful throughout New South Wales, except in far western parts, and in Queensland. It is generally found on the higher levels, on wooded rises, on hills and ridges, and on high, bare plains. Along the Hawkesbury, George's River, in French's Forest, and other places near Sydney, it is common, though tons of gum have been got from these localities, and men are almost continually getting it thereabouts. The tree is a quick grower, occupying only about five years to mature; but in the areas frequented by gum-getters a big tree is seldom seen, for often they cut out everything that is over a foot high. In such places one sees, dotting the slopes and hilltops, what looks like huge bunches of coarse green grass. Those are the tops of the young grass trees; and when they grow up they resemble, gigantic mops—rough, dark trunks, about a foot in diameter, with the huge grass-like tuft on top. In the unexploited parts of the bush they stand 20ft. high. Just under the green top there is always a mass of dry grass, which flares like tinder when a match is applied to it, the burning top at night time appearing like a great torch. Bush children use the resinous substance as a chewing-gum, knocking the exuded lumps off with a stick or stone. The lumps are hard and dry, breaking into a whitish-yellow powder when crunched; but in the boy's masticating mill the dry substance soon becomes soft and plastic. The tree in summer sends out a long, straight spear-head, which contains the seed. Blacks use this in fire-making, and the gum for healing cuts. A good ointment is also made from this substance. Like the bottle tree, the grass-tree gives a fine, picturesque note to the landscape.

The Outfit.

The gum-getter, before setting to work on State lands, must obtain a license, which costs one pound per annum. His kit consists of a light, broad-bladed axe, or a heavy tomahawk; two sieves—one with a quarter-inch mesh, and one with a half to three-quarter inch mesh; and a broad sheet of canvas, or a few bags sewn together, for beating on. This outfit, together with a supply of small bags (wheat or corn bags, cut in halves are commonly used), he can easily carry about; but, of course, when camping out, he requires a tent, some light campware and provisions. Some men manage to hump everything, getting provisions weekly from the nearest store. These sometimes arrange for stores to be delivered, and the gum to be taken to the store on the return in the grocer's cart. The gum, however, is not a medium for barter like some other products, nor can it be sold readily to stores like farm produce. Most big warehouses stock it, retailing it as grass-tree resin at about 3d per pound.

Picking the Trees.

To obtain good patches of well-grown trees the gum-getter must get away from the beaten tracks, and for convenience he requires a strong packhorse, or, better still, a horse and cart. He can then move about comfortably, and save himself trouble and expense by carting his own gum to buyers' depots or railway stations. Some little experience is needed both in picking the trees and in winning and dealing with the gum: This can be acquired by a day or so's practice and observation. There are three sorts of gum—red, chestnut and yellow. The latter is the sort desired by buyers, and the tree bearing it can be distinguished by its light-golden green top, the tops of the others being dark green. Most men take a slice off the trunk, with a downward chop of the tomahawk, and if it is yellow resin bearing, both the side of the blade and the shaved trunk will be smeared with yellow powder. In places this tree and the chestnut grow together; but it is seldom found in company with the red.

The best time, for gathering the gum is in the cool months of the year. In hot weather dirt is liable to become fused into the gum, which cannot then be purified, and in consequence its value deteriorates. Bush fires also ruin the gum-getter's harvest. After a severe scorching the tree seems to run quickly to seed; and when bearing the seed-spear all the good of the plant goes to that. A plant that appears merely as a large tussock of drooping green grass produces a spear head as well as the tall trees.

How the Gum-Getter Works.

Having located a good patch, the gum getter pitches camp in a central spot where there is plenty of shade, and sets to work. Taking his tomahawk, he first cuts off the crowning bunch of grass, leaving a small tuft on top to serve as a handle when subsequently beating the gum from the trunk. Then the black outer coat is shaved off down to the ground all round. After this operation the trunk presents a brown surface, marked from top to bottom with irregular blazed cuts. It is cut off at the ground, and the operator passes to the next. The best gum, is in the ground at the butt, but it is very difficult to clean, and is generally left.

Beating Out the Gum.

The shaving and cutting down proceeds all the forenoon, and in the afternoon the trunks are gathered up and carried to the beater. The small plants, from a foot to a couple of feet high, are collected in a bag. Where there are many tall trees it is seldom necessary to carry them far from the stump, though a man who is provided with a horse and cart may convey them a couple of miles so as to do the rest of the work where his tent is pitched. The green trunks are stacked in the shade to dry—not closely together, but so that plenty of ventilation will be given to every piece in the stack. In fine weather the drying process takes about a week; in dull or damp weather, a longer period. When the cut trees show signs of splitting they are ready for beating. The operator then takes them one by one, and holding the crowning tuft in the left hand, beats off the leaves and gum with the back of his tomahawk. Some use a stout waddy, something like a rolling pin, for this purpose. Each piece is beaten from the severed end upwards, with downward blows regulated so as not to powder the resin, until the bases of the leaves, between which the gum lies, no longer show signs of resin. The head is then thrown aside.

When he has beaten the lot out in this way, he has a heap of leaf bases, fibre, and gum on the bagging, and the next task is to separate the gum. This is easy. The gum being much the heavier, drops to the bottom, and some men clean it in the wind in the same way as dry blowers separate gold from dirt. Others get rid of the rough waste stuff by tilting and gently shaking the bagging. The common plan, however, is to sift it, first through the larger-meshed sieve, and then twice through the smaller sieve. When thoroughly cleaned, the gum is bagged, well rammed, and the bags sewn and stacked in the shade until the gum-getter is ready to cart it away.

Yields and Earnings.

The bags hold from 75lbs to 80lbs each. The price just before the war broke out was 25 to 35 per ton. When the price was about 18 per ton (in 1909-10), men were making up to 1 a day within a few miles of Sydney, where operations were principally confined to small stuff. This would mean that the best workers were each winning over a cwt, of gum per day. Grass-trees of a foot high yield about a pound weight of resin, whilst a giant specimen towering up to 20ft. high produces half a hundredweight. The work is easy and simple enough, the beating being the most tiresome part of it. A high grade of matured yellow resin is worth 50 a ton. To properly grade the different qualities of resin requires an expert worker.

Piles of debris, dotting grass-tree country for miles, disclose to the passing eye the trail of the industrious gum-getter. Along the Hawkesbury River, in French's Forrest, down the South Coast line, along by the seaboard to the north, the piles meet the bush wanderer, some of them fresh, some old and mouldering away. Around Jervis Bay, at Wyong, and at Wyee—halfway between Sydney and Newcastle, were favourite haunts of the gum-getter. Scores of men worked regularly in these and neighbouring localities, enjoying a free, healthy and independent life, and building, many of them, handsome homes with their winnings from the wilds of nature.

Parties.

A good many of the gum-getters work alone. If not procuring the gum in the vicinity of their homes, they camp in a tent or a cave—utilising, in fact, any temporary shelter where grass-trees grow, and leading for brief periods the life of a hatter. Numbers of these take to gum-getting, as men take to rabbiting and other primitive industries, to tide them over a time of slackness, and, finding it profitable and agreeable, most of them stick to it as long as they can get good patches to work on within a convenient distance to their market.

Other men work in parties of three and four and five. They work over a considerable extent of country, and are mostly provided with a vehicle of some sort, and a good camping outfit. When they have cut out a patch, and do not know of another in the vicinity, they explore the surrounding country, perhaps giving a couple of days to the search, and penetrating miles in every direction, before shifting their camp. When working a hilly riverside, as along the Hawkesbury, they follow the course of the stream, spending occasional hours in making excursions inland. A saddle horse is useful for exploring purposes, especially where patches are widely scattered.

The industry keeps a considerable number of men continuously employed—except in summer—north and south of Sydney. The excellent varnish into which the resin is easily converted, alone keeps it in demand. The grounds are never completely worked out, for young trees, providing some have seeded, are annually springing up, and are shortly profitable to the gum-getters. So parties return again and again to fields that have already given them a rich harvest.</story>