<story title="Rabbit Trappers" date="1915">
The most effective way to get rid of a pest is to turn it to commercial use. That is being done with the rabbit. It was done so well in Victoria that in 1903 the trade was worth half a million a year to that State, and 25,000 men were dependent on the industry. Exported carcases numbered 7,000,000, skins 12,000,000, and canned rabbit about 10,000,000. A little more than ten years later complaints were heard from the factories that they could not get enough rabbits to carry out their contracts to the British Admiralty. Truly a strange complaint in a rabbit-ridden country like Australia! But, then, we must take into account the enormous waste that is continually going on in this valuable food, and the limitations of the trapping areas, for commercial purposes, through want of transit facilities. The most thickly-infested regions are too far from the railways, and the pest is poisoned in millions, and trapped with wire netting and killed, without any use being made even of the skins and fur, for both of which there is a good demand.

In July, 1915, upwards of 45 tons of skins a week were sold in Sydney, prices at the end of the month being: Best bucks, 13½d to 14½d, exceptional lines 15d to 16½d, good medium 11d to 12½d, medium 8½d to 10½d, inferior 3d to 5½d; does, 4½d to 7d, smalls 4½d to 5½d. When as many as 3000 are caught in one night in a single wire-netted enclosure in the north-western districts there is good money in the skins alone. But in these interior places men work on wages, poisoning and trapping, at 30s to £2 a week and keep. Every run-holder is required by law to wage war against the pest, and so men are continuously employed in the destruction on all runs where trapping for market purposes is not carried on. Phosphorus baits, distributed about the warrens, is the common means employed, and it is a means that does more harm than good.

Trapping with Wire Netting.

Trapping with wire-netting for the purpose of keeping the pest within subjection is carried on only in the dry summer months, whereas winter is the principal time for those who trap for market. The netting is run around waterholes and excavated tanks, V-shaped indentations being made here and there, from each of which a netted tube is laid inwards. Rabbits enter by these tubes at night to reach the water, and are thus trapped in the enclosures, where they are killed with sticks in the morning. The operator has to camp near by to prevent sheep breaking down the fence during the night. The killing may occupy him a couple of hours, after which the netting is drawn aside, and he rests then till nearly sundown, when the fence is again placed in position. Providing that the watering-place isn't boggy (in which case he will have scores of sheep to pull out), his work is light; but poisoning with phosphorus is the worst billet a man can tackle in connection with rabbits.

Scalps and Skins.

While Victoria was developing her export trade, land-owners of the middle districts of New South Wales were still paying enormous sums for the destruction of rabbits. Payments for scalps was tried in many centres, and while it lasted scalpers made big cheques. The Corowa Pastures and Stock Protection Board, in 1902, paid for 116,950 scalps in four months at l½d each, equalling £730 18s 9d. About this time a strong demand for skins was setting in, and around Temora, Junee, and thereabouts men were easily making £5 and £6 a week with skins alone. The demand has steadily increased year by year, and will continue to increase, as every year sees a greater scarcity of furs in the world's markets. In 1913 the Commonwealth exported 86,998 cwt. of skins, and 9,336,290 pairs of frozen carcases. Concurrently the local trade in skins and carcases had grown to large dimensions, whilst prices to trappers had increased from 3¼d to 63d a pair for good sorts, and to 9d for prime in 1915. The retail price for dressed carcases in Sydney at the same time was 1/6 a pair—a price that might well make a visitor to this country gasp with astonishment.

Fees for Trapping Rights.

The men who trap for the market do good work, while they do no harm to other life. Occasionally a sheep gets caught in a trap, which is the reason that some squatters object to professional trappers working on their runs; but the careful trapper, operating on a small area at a time, can easily guard against that danger. Other land-owners consider themselves entitled to a royalty, and in a good many instances actually charge a fee for the right of trapping, despite the fact that they are being relieved of the obligation and expense of keeping the pest down. In places the trappers themselves are voluntary contributors to these conditions, individual parties paying up to £50 a year for the sole right of trapping in prolific areas.

A Big Industry.

The industry is worth over half a million per annum to New South Wales. It provides for thousands of families; at the end of 1911 there were 1500 members alone in the Rabbit Trappers' Union, then in its infancy. Between 50,000 and 60,000 pairs of rabbits are trapped in the State per day. Besides those trading in carcases there are hundreds of men who trap for skins only. About 20 miles is the farthest that carcases can be brought to a railway station. Beyond that radius the rabbits are generally more plentiful, and here the skin-trappers made their hauls. As it is not necessary to deliver the skins fresh, as is the case with carcases, these workers can go out to any distance that will pay to deliver by team. An experienced trapper calculates that with netting—run around the warrens or round waterholes where rabbits are thick—two men can obtain 2000 a night. An expert skins, bones, and paints 500 a day, having first to take his bones from the previous day's skins. At the average price for skins, this rate of working pays handsomely when the loads have to be transported by team from a hundred miles out from a railway station.

Buyers.

Buyers for skins and carcases are stationed at all rabbiting centres. A few trappers send their catches direct to Sydney, but the majority find it more satisfactory to deal with the local buyer. On the Blayney Harden line, at the time the local tinning factory was opened, there were five buyers, who each sent away about 50,000 pairs a mouth, for which over a thousand pounds was paid to trappers. Much of the catch was brought in from 20 miles out, one man delivering his daily lot with a five-horse team. At the Young chilling works 21 tons (31,000 carcases) were chilled and frozen per week. Special vehicles were driven out from these works to various parts of the districts to obtain the rabbits direct from trappers. There are factories in several country centres, which treat the rabbits caught in the localities. Agents' carts in places ply through the trapping areas, taking the catch from the trappers. The rabbit cart is a huge structure of frames, on which the carcases hang in rows, tier upon tier. The slaughtered animals must be taken early to the freezing works, canning factories, and to depots. At the latter places they are crated—about 17 pairs to a crate—for transit by rail. Special rabbit trains, from Southern and Western lines, run three days a week to Darling Harbour. Each truck holds 1300 pairs, and the freightage is about a penny a pair.

The Plant.

Along the Western and Northern lines three or four mates generally work together, one of them doing the cooking and camp work. Their plant consists of 50 or 60 steel traps each for three men, a couple of tents, blankets, a tomahawk and an axe, three setters (carpenters' adzes do for these), camp utensils, three horses, and a light two wheeled cart. The traps cost about 14s a dozen on the ground. Many trappers begin without the horses and vehicle. They have to hump the traps round themselves, and also hump three catches of rabbits to the camp daily, and that is all heavy work. A pack-horse does away with this drudgery. The other two horses are used in harness to deliver the goods at the depot, and for shifting camp. The camp is shifted pretty frequently, where water permits, for the trappers must keep near their work, and ordinary warrens, for the time being, are soon worked out. The trapper prefers, if he can, to spare the kittens; and as the grounds are seldom wholly worked out of adult animals, he can in a few months go over the same area again with profitable results. The rabbits, when ready for delivery, are strung in pairs on sticks, which are laid across the cart; in the specially-designed rabbit cart they are hung all round, above and under the driver. The sticks are a necessary part of the plant which the trapper has to cut at the beginning of his operations. When grass is scarce—which often happens where rabbits are plentiful—provision has to be made for the horses. Generally he allows that horse feed and cartage to the depot cost him a penny a pair.

How He Works.

The expert trapper is an artist at his work. Rabbits are suspicious of traps, and a trap covers only a few square inches of Bunny's vast domain. The novice who goes to work on his own hook, without studying methods, very often finds that Bunny knows as much about the game as he does. He puts in a prodigious amount of labour for small returns, and is apt to think that the big cheques he hears about others making are fairy tales. There are men who succeed straight away; there are others who never make a success of it. The professional is a keen observer, and he uses his head as much as he uses his hands. His traps are set in fresh ground, in cunningly-devised false burrows, the greatest care being exercised to allay suspicion. Three or four hours are occupied in setting his complement of traps. The first catch occurs about sundown. Going the round of the traps with a bag, he kills, bleeds, and paunches the victims, and re-sets the traps that have been sprung. The next round is about 9 o'clock at night, and the third at 3 or 4 or 5 in the morning, according to the distance he has to cart them to the depot. When three men are working together they can take turns in delivering the night's catch. Other animals besides rabbits get caught in the traps. Sometimes a fox or a dingo carries a trap away; but the greatest nuisance of all is the cat, which, attacks the trapped rabbit, and noses around and springs the trap.

Earnings.

In a prolific district two cratesful, or 34 pairs, is considered a fair nightly average for a trapper. In a poor district, however, he is lucky if he bags half that number. The 34 pairs may be graded as 10 prime large (2½lb and over), at 9d a pair; 12 prime young (2lb and over), at 7d; and 12 small, at 3d. That makes 17/6 for the night's catch, or £5 5s a week. Some men make considerably more; the majority make a good deal less. There are all sorts and conditions of people engaged in the industry, of all ages, from boys of school age to old men. The size of the bag is chiefly determined by the density of the rabbit population, the location and manner of setting the traps, the choice of ground, and the skill of the trappers. Whilst some men acquire the knack quickly enough, others seem incapable of ever becoming adepts, and make about £2 10s a week in localities, where the expert makes £5 with less trouble. Smart boys, and occasionally girls, have built up good banking accounts for themselves, while yet going to school, by trapping in the evenings and early mornings, but it is a practice that interferes with their schooling.

Some Good Bags.

A trapper may make a big haul on one night, or for several consecutive nights; then may follow some nights of poor to moderate bags, until he strikes another rich patch. On Tabletop Run, N.S.W., two men set 130 traps on 300 acres of ground. On the first round, at sundown, they got 58 pairs, on the lantern round 46½ pairs, and on the morning round 53 pairs—a total of 157½ pairs for the night's work. Of these 127 pairs were classed as firsts. The condition of the rabbit is another thing which the trapper has to consider when looking for trapping grounds. In favoured situations, where feed is plentiful, his bag will contain a large percentage of prime sorts, whilst in barren country the bulk of his catch will be of inferior quality. Five men, working at Pamamaroo Lake, 10 miles from Menindie, on the Darling River, caught 70,000 rabbits in wire yards in five months. The yards were shifted every second day. The rabbits were sent alive to Menindie boiling down and meat preserving works. Larger hauls are made, and with comparatively little labour, with wire-netting yards than with steel traps, but they are only used effectively where the rabbits are thick, as in the Darling River districts and farther west.</story>