<story title="Fruit Pickers" date="1915">
Fruit picking is a seasonable occupation which requires quickness and carefulness. In the picking, grading and packing, many thousands of hands are employed. In the small orchards the orchardist and his family do their own harvesting; in the large orchards, where tons of fruit are ripening at once, and must be got speedily to market, much outside labour is needed. Children are largely employed; they are nimble, sharp-eyed, and of light-weight where climbing is needed. Generally ladders and sticks—with a cutter and a small pocket on the end of them—are used for gathering the crops from the trees. Girls are employed at wrapping the best fruits in tissue paper before packing in cases. Many of the orchardists sell their fruit as it hangs on the trees. The buyer, or his agent, then arranges for the picking and packing. Sometimes this work is let at a fixed price for the whole crop; occasionally, the orchardist himself takes the contract. The pickers, when not on piece work, are paid 1s 1½d an hour. Where youngsters are employed, they are generally paid according to quantity. It is an occupation they particularly revel in. It is tiresome, and there is a lot of heavy carrying; but it is healthy work, and very satisfying to a sturdy boy with a fruit craving appetite.

Centres of Production.

The value of the fruit crop (exclusive of grapes) in the Commonwealth for the season 1913-1914 was £3,427,077. Vineyards for the same season covered 61,197 acres, of which 26,208 acres were in South Australia, and 22,435 acres in Victoria. These two States offer the most work for casual harvest hands. They are the largest producers of wine and dried fruits. Each State specialises more or less in particular crops. Tasmania produces the largest total of apples, Queensland of bananas and pine apples, New South Wales of citrus fruits and pears, Victoria of stone fruits, and South Australia of grapes. From the two latter States also come the bulk of dried fruits, the preparation of which absorbs a considerable amount of labour every year. In 1913-1914 Victoria produced 13,473,936 lbs. of raisins and 6,954,976 lbs. of currants; South Australia, 3,981,376 lbs. of raisins and 5,507,040 lbs. of currants. Men who follow the fruit harvests keep these things in mind, and converge on the various centres about the time that the different fruits are ripening. From the north and north-western shearing sheds, when the wool season is over, they move down to the big centres on the Murray River, as Mildura and Renmark, for the fruit picking and curing.

Harvesting Various Fruits.

More care is needed in the harvesting of table and preserving fruits than of those intended for jam factories, and men of experience are preferred for picking. Of course, all sorts may come from the one tree, being graded subsequently by the grower or expert assistants; but many trees of stone fruits contain only jam sorts, and some other fruits, as blackberries, go wholly to factories. The quickest way is resorted to in gathering these. Trees and branches are shaken, and if quantities of green fruit are broken off, or if the over-ripe are bruised and squashed, it doesn't matter; they are all good enough for jam. This industry is yet in its infancy, the Commonwealth exports of jams and jellies in 1913 being l,858,231lbs. valued at £29,402—less than a twelfth of the value of exported fresh fruits. The most tedious fruits to pick are mulberries, cherries and cape gooseberries. The latter are sold to shops in the husk; for the factories they are husked, either by the buyer or the groover, a process which is as irksome as husking corn. This fruit is not cultivated very extensively, but along creeks and rivers it grows luxuriantly in a wild state. Where scrub has been felled and burnt off, the plants spring up in thousands from seeds, carried by birds, that had lain dormant in the rich mould. Here farmers and others gather bags of the fruit, which with ordinary care, carry a long distance in the husk. The most objectionable fruits to harvest are the blackberry and the pineapple—the latter particularly when the stiff, spike-edged plants are close together. The easiest and freest are bananas and grapes. Bananas, which are worth about £130,000 a year to Queensland, are principally in the hands of Chinese. In New South Wales, which produces a quarter of the amount of the Northern State, the industry is developing with white labour, and it is a profitable one, requiring comparatively little attention after planting.

Vintage Time.

New South Wales, which is a very long way behind Victoria and South Australia in vine-acreage and vintage, produces about 4000 tons of table grapes a year, besides considerably over half a million gallons of wine. Two important wine-grape centres are the Hunter River, particularly along the slopes of Ben Ean, and at New Italy, on the Richmond, where a colony of Italians were settled in 1882, and have since given special attention to viticulture and silk culture. A considerable area here is under mulberry trees, grown not so much for the fruit as for the leaves on which the silk worms are fed.

Along the slopes of Ben Ean, and in the fertile valleys below, about Pokolbin and other places on the Hunter River, the broad fields of trellised vines are the rendezvous of hundreds of all ages at vintage time. Old men and young men mingle with women and girls and children of school age in harvesting the luscious crops. The youngsters are paid ½d a bucket for picking, and they pick over a hundred buckets a day. Under the 'Rural Workers' Award (which was to have come into force on October 1, 1914, but was suspended on account of the war), the rates of pay for fruit picking, packing, or forwarding operations, are £2 14s a week, without keep; employees under 18 years of age, £2 2s a week; dippermen, barrowmen, carriers-out, gangers and lumpers, £3 a week; pruners, 9s 6d a day, or £2 16s a week; horse drivers, £2 15s and find themselves; or £2 and found; all other adult, employees, male and female, £2 14s a week. Forty eight hours constitute a week's work; any time in excess of that is payable at 2s an hour.

A Busy Scene.

The pickers empty their buckets of grapes into barrels, which are carted away to the wine cellars by horse and bullock teams. All day long the buckets are coming and going, with an hour's break for dinner, and a few minutes' interval in the forenoon and afternoon; all day the teams are passing to and fro along the road, bearing away casks brimming with grapes, and bringing back empties to be filled again, some with white grapes and some with red. At the cellars the fruit is weighed before being tilted into machines, which clean it of stalks, and then it is passed into large cement vats to ferment. The scene from vineyard to cellar is a busy one, the work on the vineclad hills and valleys pleasant and healthy, and there is many a splash of colour that gives the picture a charm of its own.

Blackberries.

Very different is the harvesting of the blackberry, which grows wild in immense patches over the rugged country all along the Illawarra Range. About Bulli and Clifton hundreds of tons of the berries are gathered for the jam factories every year. The pickers receive 1d per lb., and earn up to 15s a day. The principal picker's are boys and girls, and men who are temporarily out of work; though many of the miners leave their ordinary occupation to go picking. A number of the floating population also drift Bulliwards for the blackberry season, which lasts about six weeks.

Between Otford and Bulli.

From 500 to 1000 pickers, including families living in tents in the neighbourhood of their operations, engage in the harvest between Otford and Bulli. The more industrious are out with the first streak of daylight, swarming over the vast prickly entanglement. It is no sinecure of a job, requiring experience and some amount of skill, imposing much arduous climbing, and inflicting numerous painful wounds. There are big areas so fortified with a luxuriant network of bramble and thorn that they are never penetrated even by the boldest and most eager when blackberries are scarce and dear. Some are provided with leather gloves and leggings, as in raspberry picking; with orchard appliances for gathering bunches that are growing beyond arm reach; with planks, which are thrown across the dense growth to walk on, and moved farther and farther out as the pickers advance; with long, light ladders, and other safeguards and helps. Yet there are boys, barefooted and barehanded, as far in from the edge as any of the protected brigade, and, perhaps, getting more fruit.

The Boys of Illawarra.

The local boys are quick and sharp, and they are hardy. They know just where to go for the best bunches, the luckiest spots for quantity. These are usually the most inaccessible places, for the good ground is naturally searched over and over again. Cuteness is frequently rewarded with a good cluster that has been overlooked many times, and it is received with an exclamation of joy, particularly if it is near the end of the season. The juvenile worries little then about his bleeding hands, the long, red scratches on his arms, and the prickles in his feet.

Before the wild gardens became well known, there were some who looked upon certain portions as their special preserves, and resented any encroachment by others. Their only claim was that of being first on the field. To a certain extent the claim was recognised, and, naturally, others took up similar selections, the boys of Illawarra being much to the fore in the partitioning of the blackberry patch. The result was many squabbles and fights, the boy with the best punch trespassing in the end with impunity. That all passed. At the beginning of the 1909 season some of the landowners for the first time invited tenders for the right to pick on their respective properties.

Family Parties.

Many whole families bear down on these fields of fruit, carrying buckets, cans, and baskets. They are dressed in any old things, for contact with the tenacious vines soon makes ruin of the best clothes. They form a depot near their picking ground, which is generally in charge of the mother, whose skirts do not enable her to penetrate into the clinging wilderness, and who has to prepare lunch and afternoon tea. The boys and girls, with 'father' superintending operations, spread out for the harvest, and as each can or basket is filled it is brought to the depot, and emptied, the picker returning whence he came to fill it again. All day they pick, they and hundreds more, wandering over rugged and tangled acres, encountering a snake here and there, and often tumbling with painful results into the matted growth; and towards evening the weary host, with purple-stained hands and faces, file homeward, some driving, but the majority walking, all bearing their loads of fruit.</story>