<story title="The Shearer" date="1915">
Wool is the chief contributing factor to the great pastoral wealth of Australia, and furnishes about 40 per cent, of the country's exports, valued at nearly £29,000,000 per annum (1913-14 season), to which must be added between eleven and twelve million pounds' weight of wool used locally. High-water mark was reached in 1890, when there were nearly 98,000,000 sheep in the Commonwealth. Droughty conditions in the following season reduced the total by over 25,000,000. A gradual recovery was made till, in 1913, the number stood at about 85,000,000, which was far greater than the flocks of any other country in the world; and at the end of 1914 it had jumped to 106,000,000. The organised shearers and rouseabouts, who get their living mainly in the harvesting of the golden fleece, muster about 50,000 men. That, of course, does not represent the actual number dependent on the industry even on the pastoral runs. New South Wales is the principal producing State, with Queensland second, and Victoria third. Shearers, however, do not confine their operations to any one State. They are probably the most-travelled of all Australian workers. Some of them shear in Victoria, go through a run of sheds in New South Wales or South Australia, and on to Queensland; others shear in New Zealand, then cross to the mainland. The majority traverse the two chief States. West Australian sheds, which are of slightly less importance than those of the mid State, are the exclusive preserves of the western men.

A Skilled Worker.

The shearer is a skilled worker. Pastoralists in 1911 endeavoured to have him rated as unskilled, to bring him under the award of the 48s a week men, but their arguments failed to convince Mr. Justice Higgins, the President of the Arbitration Court, who held that a shearer is not like a pick-and-shovel man, dealing with inert matter, but holds a frightened animal which struggles against the robbery of its wool; a slight error in the movements of the hands may mean the cutting of the sheep, or may involve a severe wound on the shearer himself; he must have certain special muscles in good training, and the operation requires close attention, and involves considerable strain. The work looks easy enough when being done by an expert, but it is not every man who can become a shearer. Some, no matter how persistently they practise, never acquire the knack of shearing with the blades. The machine is easier and quicker, but that, too, requires skill, and there is a knack also in handling and holding the sheep, which lightens and accelerates the work of shearing it. The average Australian shearer has no equal anywhere; in pace, methods, and workmanship he is far superior to the men of the Argentine, the next important wool growing country to Australia, and to the Americans, who have been adopting Australian methods and installing the Australian machines. Still, the untutored need not be scared. It is in the interests of growers to keep up the supply of labour, and so learners are encouraged in most big sheds throughout the States. In some sheds a stand or two is set apart for beginners, but generally the shearer starts as a rouseabout—which is the subject of another article.

The Contractor.

Shearing stands are mainly secured by post, sometimes months before the shed starts, though many shearers go from shed to shed on the chance of an engagement. It often happens that some of those who had been alloted stands do not turn up, and the casual hands step into the breach. Usually the employer likes to have his list full before the date fixed for starting. When several neighbouring sheds follow in close order, a good team not infrequently goes from one to another, perhaps with slight changes in the personnel as odd members are deflected here and there. The contractor invariably has a first-class team, for the fact that he can offer a run of sheds, which saves the shearer time and trouble in running about, attracts plenty of the best men to his service. Workers generally are against him, for he employs as few shed hands as possible, and men of average ability, shearing 80 or 90 sheep a day, have no chance of securing a pen from him while "big guns" are available. But a large proportion of the sheep of the Commonwealth are shorn under the contract system. It relieves the owner of most of the worries attendant upon shearing. It is favoured by many of those who have paid heavily in rouseabouts' wages through wet weather, and who have had bitter experiences of strikes; but others consider the work under the old system more satisfactory.

The Roll Call.

When the squatter conducts his own shearing, the roll is called at the hut the day before the shed starts. Men have been coming from various ways for two or three days before this, some on foot, some on bicycles, some on horseback, and some in vehicles. The first-comers take the first pick of the rooms and bunks, and until formally engaged all are cooks, individually batching for themselves, here are among them a couple or more professional cooks, who, in this interval, if strangers to the majority, avail themselves of opportunities of winning popular favour.

The roll is called perferably on a Thursday, which allows the men a day and a half at the week-end to get their hands in. The boss goes to the hut in the afternoon, accompanied by the bookkeeper, laden with books and papers, and the names of the shearers are called, and musterers and shed hands engaged. Then the agreement is read, pertaining to rates, working conditions, number of sheep, stores, utensils, cooking, accommodation, &c. This completed to the mutual satisfaction of both parties, the shearers elect a representative, who at once goes to the store for supplies. The cook is also chosen; if there is more than one candidate he is elected by secret ballot.

Rates.

The shearer's working time is about 8 hours 40 minutes a day, excepting Saturday, or about 48 hours a week. The rates are 24s per hundred for flock sheep (1911 Award), when rations are not found; double rates for rams and ram stags; 30s per hundred for stud ewes and their lambs: and 13s 6d per day for special studs, and found in everything. When rations are found for ordinary shearing, the employer deducts from each man's pay: In Queensland, 17s 6d per week; in New South Wales, 15s; in South Australia, 13s 6d; and in Victoria, 12s 6d. When shearing is stopped through breakage of machinery, he is paid 8s a day, or part of a day, if found; and 10s a day if not found. The shearer finds his own shears and oil in a hand shed, and pays for combs and cutters in a machine shed. The cook is paid at the rate of 4s to 6s per man per week, or a minimum of £2 10s per week, with keep. The chief qualifications required of the cook are competence, cleanness, and economy. He is judged by the voters who have not had personal experience of him by his mess account at previous sheds more than by the references he presents. The amounts stated above are fair averages of the mess in the States in ordinary times, but in the 1915 season there was a considerable rise. At North Yanco, where the price of mutton was 8d a lb., the tucker bill was 33s a week; and at Gunning bar, where about 20,000 sheep were put through in three weeks by 16 machine shearers, the mess account was 24s 10d a week. The cook at this shed was paid 6s a man, and ration sheep were 12s 6d, with 6d a head for killing.

On the Board.

Before work begins the shearers draw lots for the pens. Each man is provided with a minimum space of five feet on the board. A gate opens off this stand into a long narrow pen, into which his sheep are passed as they are shorn; and on the opposite side of the board there is a catch-pen—from which the woollies are drawn—to every two men. Work begins early, with a short run before breakfast—though in some sheds the men have breakfast about 7, and begin work at 8, which does away with the tea and brownie generally served first thing in the morning, and makes two runs of the day's work, each broken by a 15-minutes' smoke-o. Tea and buns are served on the board in the afternoon interval. The men work at high pressure all through, the big tally men cutting for the lead, and other sections watching each other. The general activity and bustle about the board is suggestive of a keenly-contested competition—and as a matter of fact there is invariably a race between several of the operators in almost every big shed. Among shearers it is an honour to ring the board—that is, to shear the highest tally for the shed; whereas the drummer, who figures at the bottom of the tally list, is the object of much good-natured chaff. The important inducement to speed, of course, is the cheque. Every man is working for himself, and the harder he works the more money he earns. There is also loss of time in travelling and waiting to be made up, and when he is not going straight away into another shed, he wants to get all he can out of the one he is shearing in.

Tallies.

The sheep are counted out by the shed overseer after each run, and the tallies are posted up on the board every morning. Shearing tallies are the subject of much discussion in every shed—and outside the sheds, too. Big tallies were more common in the seasons before 1900, for the sheep were then not so heavily woolled. The average weight of wool cut per head of sheep and lambs in the Commonwealth is about 7½lbs., whereas in the earlier days of our merino flocks the weight was not much more than half that. At Barenya (Q.), on September 19, 1895, eight men averaged 236 each; on the 20th, 26 men averaged 175 each; and next day Jim Power, the champion machine shearer of his day, made his record of 315 mixed sheep in less than eight hours. The previous best tally was Jack Howe's 321 in 8 hours 40 minutes, made with hand shears. He afterwards surpassed this at Alice Downs, on the Barcoo, in 1892, shearing 327 full-fleeced sheep in 7 hours 20 minutes. This record will probably never be beaten, for not only is the average fleece increasing in density and weight, but hand shearing is being superseded by machines in all the important centres of the industry.

Harry Livingstone, the recognised Queensland champion of to-day, shore in successive days 233, 225, 237, 237, and 221—a very profitable five days at 24s per 100. At Cambridge Downs in 1910, 117,000 sheep were put through in four weeks and two days by a board of 38 shearers. In one day, working on ewes and lambs, the whole team cut an average of 198½ sheep per man. The top scorer was Harrison, with 265; then came W. Garvey, with 259; S. Hookway, 250; J. Boyland, 246; Jack Seary, 244; and many others over the 200 mark. At Wantalaynia, near Winton (1915 season) five shearers in one day averaged 269 sheep per man.

Shearing Contests.

Occasionally a contest takes places for a wager between two fast shearers. In 1911 a purse of £500 was offered at Toowoomba (Q.), with a £100 side wager, to settle the question of the Australian shearing championship. But none of the noted shed champions, as Livingstone and Cooper, took part in it. The contest was between Fred Zimmerle, a Toowoomba native, and Charlie Maurer, of Glen Innes, both of whom had high local reputations, but did not show many claims for championship honours. Points were awarded for quality and for style, and the men consequently paid more attention to quality and style than they would have done in an ordinary shed. The conditions called for only 2½ hours' shearing, in which time Zimmerle "pinked" 32 sheep and Maurer 28. Against this, Cooper's time in a shed, shearing all day, is under two minutes for a sheep; his record for a single sheep is 1 minute 38½ seconds.

Earnings.

The average tally of a good shearer is from 90 to 100 a day, and his average earnings, clear of all expenses, from the time he leaves home until he returns home, is about £3 a week. A good many make three times that much in a shed; Jimmy Power shore 40,000 in one season in Queensland, which, at an average of 25s a hundred, gives £500 as his gross earnings; but these, are exceptions, and the "big guns," being known everywhere, get a better run of sheds than the ordinary lot. The latter have to reckon on much lost time in travelling from shed to shed, in waiting for sheds to start, and there is very frequently time lost at the shed through wet weather. They take good cheques out of the sheds they shear in, but reckoned on time spent from home to home, the ordinary shearer does well to average £3 a week clear. He certainly enjoys much leisure for his money, but that is a reason why he maintains a high speed when at work; he lives well, and he sees a lot of country, travelling, as he does, from district to district, from State to State. His work is hard, but he gets a lot of enjoyment out of life, and when the shearing season is over he can turn his hand to something else to fill in time. There are hundreds who do nothing else but follow the sheds, for they make enough in a long season to keep them the rest of the year, and leave a good sum over.</story>