<story title="The Tobacco Grower" date="1915">
The tobacco grower, if free from the evil influences of combines and monopolists, stands on a good wicket. Few crops offer better prospects than tobacco, though more labour is required in the raising and curing of the leaf than is demanded by most other crops. It is also a product that can't be got rid of as soon as it is harvested, but has to be kept a considerable time curing in sheds after it is cut. Our farmers are used to crops that bring them substantial cheques immediately they are taken from the fields. This, and the hard-dying prejudice against the local product, have made Australians chary of embarking in this industry. They would seem to have had more faith in it in 1888-9, when the area under crop amounted to 6641 acres, of which two-thirds were in New South Wales, than in 1913, nearly a quarter of a century later, when the whole area under crop in the Commonwealth was only 3007 acres. Of this, 1992 acres were in New South Wales, 284 in Victoria, and 731 in Queensland—principally in the Texas district. This decline was mainly due to the importing class, and their created prejudice against the local article. We have seen the same baneful influence at work in other industries—some of which the enterprising valiantly attempted to set on foot many years before they actually got going on a sound commercial basis; and it is no exaggeration to say that the greatest enemies to Australian progress and prosperity are the importing people whose interests are chiefly confined to importations.

A Steady Improvement.

Since about 1908, however, there has been a steady improvement. Australians were then beginning to awake to the true merits of their own things, and the spirit of patriotism and faith in our own grew and spread until it was generally realised that the Australian article, in whatever department of commerce, was equal and often superior to the imported. Our tobaccos, among other things, were proved in open competition to be quite as good as the best from other parts of the world. Our black tobaccos especially could challenge competition anywhere. In the light sorts we had still something to learn, and particularly in the production of cigar leaf. This is the top rung of the tobacco grower's trade, and we can't expect to jump to the top rung all at once. Suffice it to begin with that we are unsurpassed in dark sorts. Climate and soil enter largely into the determination of qualities and shades of tobacco. Australian climates range from the snow cold to the sub-tropical, and her soils are even more varied. Experts have proved that the best tobaccos can be grown in a great many districts from Victoria to Queensland. Some success has also been attained in the Northern Territory, and in West Australia it is a paying proposition. But it is an industry that requires a good deal of study, and so much care is needed in growing and curing, that our people are only very slowly taking to it. What it means to the country may be gauged from the fact that the amount of Australian leaf used in local factories in 1913 was 1,310,000 lbs., against 10,368,000 lbs of imported leaf. Imports of manufactured tobacco for the same year were 1,902,435 lbs.; cigars, 433,279 lbs., and cigarettes 167,026 lbs. Our own manufactures look well against these figures, but, as seen above, the great bulk of the leaf was imported. The quantity produced in the 36 factories of the Commonwealth was 9,956,045 lbs. of tobacco, 405,901 lbs. of cigars, and 2,767,550 lbs. of cigarettes.

Chinese Growers.

Tobacco manufacture was one of the first industries to be established in Australia. There were eleven factories in New South Wales in 1861. Yet in leaf-growing we had progressed very little half a century later. Besides the reasons already given for this tardy development, there was something owing to the Chinaman, who had almost obtained a monopoly in leaf-growing, just as he had in market gardening. The Chinaman takes to the latter as readily as a duck takes to water, and in the cultivation of tobacco, there is much that is suggestive of a cabbage field. Australians, on the other hand, have not been keen on vegetable growing on a large scale, and they showed the same disinclination to take up tobacco.

I visited some of the plantations at Texas, on the Severn River, in 1894. Only one factory was then operating there, that of Greenup Brothers, which stood on a hill overlooking a big lagoon, a couple of miles outside the town. Some years later, the firm of W. D. and H. O. Wills established works in the same locality. On the way to Texas I travelled the last couple of days with one of the planters. He had two Chinamen with him, whom he had brought from Brisbane to grow the leaf for him. They were not cheap, for they were engaged for a long term at a pound a week and keep. That was good pay then, for there had been a considerable drop in wages for all kinds of bush work, caused by the banks closing for "reconstruction." They were regarded as experts, and looked upon as indispensable. Many large farms thereabouts had for years been devoted entirely to the leaf, which was manufactured into a first class black twist in the local factory. In the cultivation and drying of the leaf Chinese were, almost wholly employed, under the erroneous impression that they were more skilled in that work than the whites. With more experience the planters discovered that the product of white labour was of much better quality, and consequently commanded a higher price. The Chinamen were therefore replaced with whites on many of the old fields, while new plantations were started where "no Chinaman need apply."

The Planters' "Plug."

In the Texas tobacco area two things at once impress the visitor. One is the large number of girls employed in the factory (mostly at leaf-stripping, which is piece work) and the number of women and children who take part in hanging up and turning the bunches of leaves to dry; the other is the sort of "weed" that is smoked by the growers and by many of the other local residents. When the traveller asks for a pipeful, he is handed a lump of raw leaf, dried and tightly twisted. The "plug," before it is cut, looks like a piece of rope, and is about a foot long. It is a mild, unsatisfying smoke to the stranger, the very opposite in strength to the manufactured article—the strong, black "Texas twist." This tobacco is very much favoured in the Queensland bush—a good augury for the future, when the industry is properly developed.

On the Plantation.

After the ground has been properly worked, which is necessary for all crops, the grower's work in the field is light, though tedious. A lot of it is done by women, boys, and girls, who also help in the drying and curing sheds. First the seed is sown in specially-prepared beds—in early spring—somewhat in the same manner as cabbage seed. The seed costs 5s an ounce, and one ounce is sufficient to plant 10 acres. The young plants are transplanted when the leaves are two or three inches long, which is about six or eight weeks from the time of sowing. It is here where a heavy call is made on the grower's time and patience. The white planter, used to quick methods of agriculture with plough and drill, finds it very irksome for the first year or two, whereas it is peculiarly suited to the Chinaman. To have a uniform field he has to employ assistance, unless he has youngters able to give a hand. The plantation absorbs a good deal of labour in this way. Afterwards, for a couple of months at least, he can easily attend to it himself. Once well established, the broad leaves soon spread, and there is no further bother with weeds.

Topping and Cutting.

The growing season lasts only four or five months. The flower bud appears in ten weeks, and this has to be pinched off. Plant by plant, row by row, the whole field has to be gone over, excepting only such plants as are wanted for seed. Suckers grow out at the intersection of the leaves after topping, and these, too, have to be broken off, which is done before they are three inches long. Though it is very simple and easy work, these two operations keep the planter busy. The crop is ready for harvesting about eight weeks after topping. Cutting is also simple, but has to be done with care. Grasping the top of the plant with one hand, the cutter splits the stalk right down to within a few inches of the ground with a knife, without severing any of the leaves. It is then laid on the ground, butt end to this sun, and when it has wilted sufficiently to be handled without breaking the leaves it is carted to the shed. The new hand soon acquires dexterity in cutting. What is particularly needed of him is carefulness in all his dealings with the Lady Nicotine. Most other crops will stand rough treatment; in some instances one may walk rough-shod or drive over the harvest without damaging it. But not so with tobacco; it is a delicate plant that must go to the factory unbroken, with a good colour, texture, and aroma. The treatment in the field is an important factor; the plant has to wilt to a certain degree—which takes longer on a cloudy day, and on a very hot day there is a danger of scorching, which spoils or ruins it. Thus speed and some expertness is needed in harvesting. This applies to light tobaccos; heavy varieties are scaffolded for a few days in the field.

In the Shed.

The shed is a long, lofty building. The Chinamen at Texas used rough sheds, mostly open at the sides; and the drying was mainly left to the weather. On some white plantations the leaves are air-cured; on others the flue process of drying and curing is used. The leaves are hung on sticks about four feet long, which are placed in long rows eight or ten inches apart, and tier above tier, the lowest about nine feet, above ground. Charcoal fires are then made underneath, or the heat is supplied by flues to a properly regulated temperature. The following instructional table shows the time and procedure in the shed:—

(1) The yellowing process requires, at 90deg. F., from 24 to 30 hours.

(2) Fixing the colour, beginning at 100 deg. F. to 120deg. F., over 16 to 20 hours.

(3) The curing process, 120deg. F. to 125deg. F., over 48 hours.

(4) Curing the stem, 125deg. F. to 175deg. F., over 9 to 10 hours, increased at the rate of 5deg. F. per hour.

At night time, between each of the heating processes, the shed is opened so that the leaves will cool and absorb moisture, and here again the planter has to exercise care lest dampness ensues, with resultant mildew. When cured and pliant enough to be handled without breaking, the leaves are stripped from the stalks, and graded into firsts, seconds, and thirds. They are tied into little bundles of a dozen leaves called "hands," which are rehung on the sticks in the shed, where they have to be kept sweet until ready for bulking down. The stalks are sold for fertilising purposes. The length of time occupied with it from harvesting until it finally reaches the factory is what most farmers don't like about this crop. But the trouble is worth while, for tobacco grown under the rural workers' conditions for hired labour returns a handsome profit.

Yields and Earnings.

Some sorts of tobacco plant are more easy to work than others, such as "Hester" and "Conqueror." The former yields up to 15001b. to the acre. The price paid to the grower for ordinary leaf is 9d to 10d a lb. The Tamworth crop for the 1914 15 season was sold at 10d to 11d a pound for average quality, and some flue-cured leaf of extra quality brought 1s 3d a pound. In Victoria, when leaf was bringing only 6d to 8d per lb., three men at Edi, Victoria, took £800 worth of pipe tobacco from 15 acres in one season—an average yield of £52 per acre. Cigar leaf in Gippsland at the same time, returned nearly £70 per acre.

The grower's final job is pressing the leaf into bales—or casks, or boxes—in which it is sent to the factory. Here the nimble fingered mid-rib girls get to work on it, taking the stem or middle rib out of the leaf. They are paid by weight for their work, and make anything from 30s to £3 a week. Much of the work in the factory is done by girls, but on the plantations the growing and preparation of the leaf give employment to a good many men and boys.</story>