<story title="The Drover" date="1915">
There are several species of the genus drover. On the main stock routes that lead from the big runs of the interior all are as familiar as the passing of mobs; and no class of inland workers are more widely known than the men who have charge of those mobs. Ever passing up and down over thousands of miles of country, looking for grass and searching for water, there are few by the long, lone roads who do not come into contact with them, as the summer merges into winter, and the winter passes again into summer, as the rains flood the plains, and the flood vanishes and the plains are parched again. If you meet a seasoned traveller on the road and mention that you have passed a mob of cattle, he will ask, "who's in charge?" If you supply the name, the traveller will probably give you the drover's history, his good and bad points, the standard of his victualling, where he learnt to ride, and what cattle he first went on the road with. If he happens to be a stranger, the query will be, "what kind of a drover is he?"

The Plant.

Droving is conducted in many ways and under various systems. A proper droving plant consists of a waggonette and team, cooking utensils, three or four tents, half a dozen saddles and bridles, a dozen or more saddle horses, hobbles, bells, axes, shovels, and harness, representing a total value of about £275. The waggonette is generally purchased second hand—any old rattle trap with sound wheels and good springs is pressed into the drover's service; the horses are bought outback where they are cheaper—and many a one is picked up on the track at half its value; the rest of the plant is obtained, second hand, at squattages, or first hand in a town as near to a railway as possible, where prices are not exceptional. A half-guinea bridle in Brisbane becomes a 25s bridle in Boulia, which is a difference worth considering when one has to buy a lot. Many drovers go on the roads without a vehicle of any kind, and are known as pack-horse drovers. These, again, are divided into weekly and contract drovers.

Contractors.

The contract drover gets either so much per head per hundred miles, generally about a shilling, or delivers the mob at their destination for a lump sum, the amount of which depends on the route and the season—also on the cattle, mobs off some runs being as quiet as sheep on the road, whilst others are as troublesome as wild bred scrubbers. The uninitiated would expect little or no difference in working conditions under the alternative terms of agreement, but there is such a wide margin that many experienced men will not accept work under the lump-sum contractor if employment is to be had under the other one, who is being paid according to mileage. The former has in the majority of cases a short trip and strong cattle, and obviously he choses the shortest cut possible, which may be the hungriest, as time with him is the main object. He hustles all the way, besides which he is very often short-handed and scantily accoutred and provisioned. He averages 15 to 17 miles a day, which is not much short of what a horseman will cover on the return journey; and thus it takes the men nearly as long to go back empty-handed as it took them to go down with cattle; and considering that the hours are from 16 to 18 a day, and their horses are not sufficiently fed and rested on the trip, the monetary result is unsatisfactory.

The Longest Way Home.

The other man's trip is always a long one, and he has to be content with an average of 12 or 13 miles a day to get his stock through in anything like creditable condition. The regulation distance is 12' miles (six miles with sheep), and the drover is liable to a fine if he doesn't put that distance between his night camps. He doesn't look for short cuts; he takes every advantage of current reports as to scarcity of feed and water on the usual routes to make a detour, and while he is at it he generally makes a very material sweep to escape even the suspicion of bad country. The longest way home is the shortest way to fortune, and he aims at travelling as many hundred miles as possible. Though some are bound to particular routes, they can, and do explain that they found water and feed scarce, and were compelled to deviate. Some latitude must be allowed the drover. Weather is such an important factor that he must use his own discretion to a great extent, for no one can say what a backblock track will be like three months from any given date. Water is the main consideration, but in good seasons, when, there is much traffic on the routes, the way is eaten bare, and though the mobs are seldom hemmed by fences, a stockman meets them on runs where the squatter objects to their spreading beyond bounds, and escorts them through. On some runs they are allowed to spread and loiter; on others they are kept rigidly within the regulation width of track, and compelled to travel their proper distance whatever inconvenience that might entail. If left alone, the drover might travel only ten miles, one day, and 15 miles another, and though he thus averages more than the required distance, the squatter can prosecute him for the short day.

Wages.

On these long trips the men make big cheques, besides having the benefit of a mob that is settled down; and after travelling a thousand miles or so with the cattle, they can often ride back to the starting point in less than a third of the distance. Beside which, if the contractor has the proper plant, there is an abundance of provisions, adequate cuisine, camping requisites, and other necessary accoutrements for a long journey. He also kills his own meat on the road, and loads up with vegetables whenever a garden comes handy. The men are paid from £2 to £3 a week and keep; in the remote central regions, £4 to £5 a week and keep. The second-in-charge is paid about a pound more than the other men; the cook's pay is £2 10s to £3 10s, and the horseboy's 30s to £2. Each man, when the contractor doesn't find all horses and gear, is allowed 5s a week for his horse and 2s 6d a week for his saddle.

With a Waggonette.

With a waggonette a man can carry a bigger swag, containing many comforts that he must dispense with under the regime of the pack-horse drover, and there is not half the trouble of rolling up and packing, and comparatively no risk of losing things. Neither are the men compelled, as with most of the pack drovers, to carry quart pots on their saddles and lunch in their pockets or saddle-pouches, for the waggonette carries water for tea, and, the tucker-box being always get-at-able without unpacking, it can pull up at any spot that is convenient for the men for lunch. It certainly gets bogged or breaks down occasionally leaving hungry men waiting for supper; but the pack-horse also misconducts himself, as when in an unguarded moment he rolls in the water, or tears the swags and batters the billycans against limbs and trees, or takes a fit into his head and scatters the whole collection about the bush.

The cattle invariably camp a while at noon, and the men not infrequently enjoy a siesta—especially with the weekly drover—at the same time. The latter may get so much per week per man, as when a squattage sends its own cattle away, or so much per hundred head per week. In either case he can afford to see a lot of country, and see it in the leisurely manner of a tourist who wants to absorb the scenery. Many of these are also bound to time and restricted to particular routes; but the drover is a man who has plenty of time to think, and the unforeseen circumstances which kill time and cause deviations are as plausible as they are numerous. Some of the biggest contract drovers began as weekly drovers, being at first trusted head stockmen on squattages, or well-known selectors; and after a few trips have got a plant together, and gained credentials by which they had no trouble in getting mobs. Certainly, one meets a contractor at times who is not very familiar with the ropes, but through the wide spaces where droving is something of a science they are all experienced men.

Some Long Trips.

So much depends on the ability of a drover on long trips that his performances are closely noted by cattle breeders and buyers. A trip or two may give him a good name or a bad name, which will make all the difference in his subsequent activities. Among long-distance records was one accomplished by Drover Rose, who left Lissadell, on the Ord River, W.A., in June, 1905, with 3000 cattle, for Charleville, Q.—a journey of nearly 3000 miles. Drought conditions, encountered when half-way across the Northern Territory, turned him north into the ranges, where he zigzagged up and down watercourses for months, gradually working eastward until he reached good country by the Nicholson River route. At times it was necessary to send exploring parties as much as 150 miles ahead. Rose had 20 men, and he delivered 2600 of his mob at Charleville, in splendid condition, early in November. A longer trip was made by McDonald Bros., who took cattle from Goulburn, N.S.W., to stock Fossil Downs, 200 miles east of Derby, W.A., the trip covering 3300 miles; but out of 3700 head they started with they delivered only 2100. Drover J. Skuthorpe took 2000 bullocks from Wave Hill to Narrabri, losing only 10 head; he was 12 months on the road, and travelled 3000 miles. A good droving feat was performed by Stuart Field in 1906. With nine men he started with 10,900 sheep from Ann Downs, Q., on May 31, and delivered them, with only 400 short, at Wilmington, S.A., 1350 miles from the starting-point, on November 23. On the way a bridge had to be built over the Cooper, which was 140 yards across, with deep water and a strong current. It was made with tripods weighing up to three-quarters of a ton, then longitudinals topped with rushes and bushes, and over that hessian covered with earth. The bridge was completed in 14 days, at a cost of £43, and saved two months' delay.

With Sheep.

Cattle are more restless on the road than sheep, and require more skill to manage. A good dog will do most of the work with sheep, and at night calico hurdles or a few fires will hold them. But there is more anxiety with sheep. On good roads old men on foot can do much of the work, but when water and feed are scarce sheep droving is a heart-breaking occupation. Almost any new chum can go with sheep, providing there are a couple of experts in the camp, and it is in this way that new hands gain their first experience in droving. But the first essential with cattle is good horsemanship. With quiet stock on inside routes champions are not necessary; for all that, the sheep man has much to learn when he begins with cattle. He generally gets his first rude shock at night, when the mob breaks camp, and he has to ride hard through thick and thin to stop them and bring them back single-handed. I have seen an old man with sheep who could only potter along at the tail with a walking-stick, getting £3 a week and his keep, because he had an intelligent little animal that was worth two men at the side. A dog is a disadvantage to a man who is looking for a job with cattle.

A Pleasant Life.

On the out-back routes a large number of men are constantly employed. The hours are long—from dawn till dark, with two or three hours on watch on the night camp—and all days are work days until the trip is ended. Through rain and shine, through cold and heat, through flood and drought, the drover pursues his way, and perhaps will sleep under no roof but his tent from year's beginning to year's end. Yet, on the whole, it is a pleasant life, a roving, open-air life that has a good deal of fascination about it.

The boss drover, spending many a convivial evening with squattage managers along the stock route, escapes the weariness of the road, and makes a pleasure trip of what is to others a continual round of hard work. Some, of them simply ride from squattage to squattage, or from squattage to town, leaving the stock to the care of the second-in-charge. Others never leave the mob, and take every possible care of individual beasts through day and night. These men have often more offers than they can undertake, though some of them keep two or three plants going, taking stock down on different route's, or from different runs on the same route. Sometimes the work is sublet, but mostly the extra mobs are placed in charge of weekly men who have gained a reputation for good droving on previous trips with the contractor; or, again, the drover may be one of a company, the members sharing all proceeds equally.</story>