<story title="The Splitter." date="1915">
Though the splitter's maul rings out in many a forest yet, his field grows narrower every year. In all the well-settled districts the trees have been picked over and over, so that he has to search longer and farther for what he requires, and has tougher trees to work on than formerly. The little sawmills, working in all centres where there is a demand for hardwoods, assist in the denudation, and at the same time supply most of the building material that was once hewn by his rough tools. Every man who settles outside a town does a good deal of splitting for himself, mostly for fencing; and those who have good patches of timber turn it to profit by splitting posts and rails and palings for others. This work alone at one time provided constant employment to men all over the country. The use of fencing wire lessened the need of timber by at least one half. The splitter gets more for his posts to-day, but he has to go farther for them, and has to put in more strenuous toil getting them. Where men could once confine themselves exclusively to this work, they get only an occasional job. Some of it is done by contract, but much of it is weekly work, the pay being (under the award) 8s 4d per day of eight hours, or 10s 6d per day where the employee finds himself.

Settlers' Houses.

The houses of the early settlers were built wholly of split timber, and many of the dwellings and outsheds of the present day are composed of the same rough material. Immense forests of eucalypti met the old splitter in every direction, and with no more tools than one could carry on his shoulder the splendid trees were readily transformed into substantial homes, every foot required being often cut and split without going beyond stone-throw of the building site. Huge slabs, from 10 inches to 18 inches wide and 2 inches to 2? inches thick, level and straight, were split for walls and floors, round timber being used for rafters, and squared saplings for plates and uprights. Even boards and battens for windows, doors, tables. &c., were split from light woods, and shingles for the roof. A block, a throw, and the fork of a small tree comprised the plant of the shingle splitter. He was a tradesman apart, there being plenty of roofs to do to keep him going. Many houses and sheds were roofed with bark, the bark of the blackbutt, woollybutt, stringybark, mesmate, box: coolabah, mahogany and peppermint being most favoured, though at times the bark of the grey and blue gums was used. The stripping of the bark was usually done by aborigines, who could take off the sheets, in lengths required, up to the branches of the tallest trunks, using only a vine, a tomahawk, and perhaps a short stick for prising the bark off. The straight boled trees picked for this purpose could afterwards, while still green, be felled and split up, some of them yielding enormous quantities of slabs, or posts and rails, as circumstances required.

Destruction of Timber.

Australia possesses many of the finest hardwoods and softwoods to be found in any part of the world. Unfortunately their worth was too often but meagrely appreciated, especially by those who had great quantities growing around them for which they had no immediate use. With the fatal short-sightedness that characterised the early settlers in new or remote districts, their only thought was to get rid of it in the quickest and easiest way possible. They looked upon the dense forest as an encumbrance on their land, and treated it as the river farmers treated the dense, scrubs—destroying everything at a face. In the clearing of those scrubs that once lined the banks of the north-eastern rivers, thousands of fine trees of cedar, rosewood, tulip, ironwood, teak, bean, maple, beech, turpentine, myrtle, coachwood, and numerous others were consigned to the flames. Very often the scrub cutters were unaware of the utility of many of the timbers.

Not always was the settler to blame. Vast forests of the best timber trees were ruthlessly destroyed under the free selection conditions that made ring-barking and scrub-felling compulsory. Ringbarking was one of the principal improvements demanded by the Land Act of Sir John Robertson. Sir John has been dead a long while, and it would have been a good thing for the country if his Act had died with him. Despite the protests of settlers themselves, and warnings from other parts of the world where timber had reached a prohibitive price, the folly was perpetuated by succeeding Governments, until millions of acres of our great heritage had gone up in smoke. Many of the earlier settlers in later years had to go far for the same kind of timber that they were forced to destroy on their own land, and which, had it been preserved, would have given them an easy independence. Some of them at the time were far-seeing enough to recognise that a day would come when their little forests would be their most valuable assets; but the asinine Act said "away with it," and they had either to destroy it or forfeit their selections. There are sawmills through those parts now howling for timber; there are paper mills elsewhere shrieking for forests to turn into pulp. The consumption by this latter means alone will ultimately leave precious little for building material. What should be as valuable to Australia as her gold is being reduced to ashheaps and stumps for the purpose of making three blades of grass grow where only two grew before. Then there is the question of rainfall and ground moisture, which are seriously affected by the denudation of forests. I remember when a heavy flood occurred at least once a year, and not infrequently two or three times a year, on the Richmond, Clarence and contiguous rivers. Nowadays a big flood in these streams is novel enough to excite the cable-man. Then the country was densely clothed with timber; now it is stripped. Instead of compelling destruction in this lunatic fashion, a wise legislature would enforce the planting of a new tree for every one cut down. We owe that to posterity.

How he Works.

The splitter is an expert judge of timber. He can tell by looking at the bark what the grain of the wood is like, whether it is straight or windy, free or tough, though, before putting his saw into it he usually takes out a thick chip and tries it with the axe. An occasional tree is deceptive. One sometimes, comes upon a straight-bodied giant in a patch that has been picked over a thousand times, and on examining finds a dozen old marks around the butt, showing that different axemen, deceived by its appearance, had tried it, and left it. Such a giant is a prize to the timber-hauler who is getting logs for the sawmill; but the close, twisty grain is no good to the splitter, unless he is badly in need of rough material, and is prepared to do some hard slogging to burst it up. He requires mature trees for his purpose, and therefore mostly works among big timber. The bigger the tree the better he likes it, providing he can work his saw from the ground, or from a low stage. There are hardwood trees that are too thick at a dozen feet from the butt to be spanned by an ordinary crosscut saw. If he chops them down he has to saw the butts off, which means additional labour.

After sawing the trunk into lengths, his hardest work is bursting the logs. When the halves have been divided into sections, his easiest and most pleasant work is running off the slabs, or whatever he may be splitting, the insertion of one or two light wedges to each being often sufficient for this purpose. The slabs are stacked in neat heaps, several heaps, each equal to a dray load, being got from one big tree. There is little waste in the trunk, beyond the core and some sapwood; but the rest of the tree, from the bottom branches upwards, is all wasted—unless the splitter is working near a town or a railway siding, when it can be cut up for fuel. When the whole of the tree can be used, the ironbark is his most profitable forest hardwood, for even the bark of this tree makes excellent fuel. Country blacksmiths use it specially for heating tyres. When cutting firewood the splitter does not look for giants; any small timber of the right sort—as box and coolabah—suits his purpose. He is paid by the cord, the price varying according to the supply and the distance it has to be carted. For the interior woolsheds. where the firing is mostly mulga and gidgee, he is paid six to eight shillings a cord on the ground, and finds himself, the employer finding the tools. The woodcutter who supplies country towns by the load seldom splits the wood; nor does he cut it into short lengths. He picks up dry logs and sticks in the bush, and delivers them as he finds them. It is only when this supply gives out, and he has to get on to green timber, that he cuts it up into lengths, and these are stacked and left to dry.

Shingles and Palings.

The average kit consists of a crosscut saw, a couple of axes and mauls, and a set of wedges. The mauls he makes himself, with the exception of the iron rings. He uses also a couple of levers; and when splitting shingles or light palings, a throw and a wooden fork (cut from a small tree) are required. There is not much done now in shingles, but rough palings are extensively used in all well-timbered areas. These are split from gum, black butt, stringybark, ironbark, and other hardwoods. As many as 9000 6ft. palings have been obtained from one tree. To produce this number a tree has to be both colossal and free-running from the butt. As a rule, palings are not split from the butt, that portion being generally cut for posts and rails. In big forests, 200 posts or rails and 7000 6ft. palings have often been got from one tree. Among splitters records are aimed at in respect to quantity of timber taken from a single tree, and the quantity split in a day. Some men can get more out of a log than others. To split a thousand palings in a day requires free timber and a good worker; but one man in Cape Otway forest split 1500 in 8 hours, and did his own billeting.

Sleeper-Cutting.

When cutting railway sleepers, the trees are more carefully selected than for ordinary purposes, as the sleepers, which are 8ft. in length, 9in. in width, and 4 in. in depth, have to be straight, square, and out of winding, free from heart, sapwood, large knots, and shakes, and cut from large trees. The timbers mostly used are ironbark, tallowwood, grey gum, blackbutt, white mahogany, box, and white stringybark. The contract price ranges from 2/11 to 5/9 per sleeper, according to the locality, and the distance to the depot or wharf where they have to be delivered; and the cutters are paid from 2s 10d to 3s 5d each. The latter receive up to 10d more for squares than for roundbacks. On the North Coast line the price paid for sleepers is from 3s 9d to 3s 11d at the depots. The contractor makes a profit of from 1d to 3d per sleeper. The following figures from the Public Works report may be taken as a fair sample of payments: Sleepers delivered in depot, 4s 1d. each; rates paid to cutters, 3s 5d; royalty and turning, 5d; yardage, management and profit, 3d; total, 4s 1d.

A security deposit, from 25 to 200, is usually required by the Government from the contractor. A certain time is stipulated for the delivery of the sleepers, and there is a fine of about ?1 per week for time exceeding that agreed upon. The sleepers are passed and branded by the inspector at stated places; and a condition in some contracts is that the contractor must find all labour necessary for handling during the inspection. Large quantities of sleepers are obtained direct from cutters, the industry providing constant employment to thousands of men in the big-timbered regions of the Commonwealth. To the end of 1914 about 300 families were engaged for 12 years without a break at Mogriguy, Bulladora and Gilgandra. Sleepers are always being wanted for new railway and tram lines, for duplications and for maintenance.

In a big forest, where there is plenty of timber handy, the splitter works under agreeable conditions. Much of the work is heavy, but it is always clean, and the surroundings exceedingly healthy. These forests are also the home of the bulldog ant and the jumper, with which the splitter has lively arguments almost every day in the week. He has a tent or a rough hut near by, unless he is working on or near his own selection. Some have their families with them; others ride home once a week or once a fortnight. The life under canvas or in a bark hut is rough and primitive; but the veteran splitter is used to that, and enjoys it. Every man to his trade; and there is no place more pleasant to the splitter than a vast forest, where the tall, straight boles stand thickly, waiting for his saw and wedges.</story>