<story title="The Potstickers" date="1915">
The potsticker is a worker whose harvest comes at the close of shearing. At the bush scours, he washes the clip simply by means of a rough crate and a stick. The suggestion of the potstick; which women use when boiling clothes, no doubt accounts for the name. Primitive though the process is, it nevertheless requires skilled hands. It has its regular followers like other trades and callings. Woolclassers, when they have not a succession of sheds following closely one after another, put in their spare time at this work. In other cases, too, they not infrequently secure the contract, and have the scour going at the same time as the shearing, thus getting two handsome "cuts" out of the clip at once. The contract price for washing is generally about 1¼d per lb. on scoured weights.

In Dry Parts.

Most large squattages that wash their own wool are equipped with proper scouring plants. These are situated where there is an abundance of permanent water. On the dry plains of the interior the conditions are very different. Much of the wool is sent away in the grease through want of water, only the worst of the clip on such places being treated locally. Scouring time and the extent of operations depend on the rains, just as the scene depends largely on the temporary location of the best waterhole. One year it will be in a certain neighbourhood, and next year several miles away. A permanent plant could not under the circumstances be erected; so a primitive make shift scour has to be rigged up afresh every season. The quantity of rain, too, has as much bearing on the prosperity of the potsticker as it has on that of the wheat grower. In a wet season he may operate on the whole clip of a shed, while in a dry season the bulk of it will be sent away in the grease. It is estimated that the quantity of Australian wool scoured and washed before export amounts to only about 20 per cent. of the total clip, which means a considerable annual waste in carriage and freight, besides the loss of much work to local scourers.

A Foul Thing.

Here and there bore water is utilised. At such places the plants may be good and permanent, and they may be temporary affairs carted there with the wool from distant sheds. As a rule, the water available is limited and stagnant; sometimes the washing is done at a dam or an excavated tank. At the start the water is clean; but every day it becomes thicker, blacker, and easier to find in the dark. The most desirable place to the potsticker is a big hole in a running creek. There may be one such quite handy, but he dare not use it if there are people below him dwelling by the creek and depending on it for water. The nearest house may be 20 miles away, but such a foul thing is a scour that he would not be long at work before he was waited upon by an angry deputation. When there are no small settlements along the banks, neighbouring squatters often object to the pollution of the water which their stock have to drink.

From Shed to Scour.

The permanent scour again is often far away from the shed. In other cases the shed, when built contiguous to the woolwash, is far away from the homestead. Naryilco shed, at The Corners (N.S.W., S.A., and Q.), is nine miles from the homestead. Connulpie Downs shed, on the north-west border of New South Wales, is about the same distance, and another mile, on account of a low flat, separates shed and scour. The temporary scour is rarely close to the scene of shearing operations. When it is only three or four miles away, the wool is carried to it loosely in carts; but when longer distances have to be covered the wool is roughly pressed into bales and conveyed to the wash by teams. At small sheds this delays the potstickers, as they have to wait until pressing is completed at the shed. The press is then taken to pieces, carted down to the scour, and re-erected there for dumping the washed wool. Under these circumstances potsticking rarely gets into swing before the latter end of shearing.

The Plant.

One scour, which may be taken as typical of the rougher sort in the backblocks, was situated on the bank of a natural reservoir in Whittabranah Creek. A rough platform was swung on thin poles over the water to carry the crates; three parts of the deck was under water. Most of the men worked barefooted, whilst those who wore boots were waterlogged all day. A hot-water tank stood on the bank, whence the wool, after soaking, was sent clown a chute to the stage, and thrown thence into the crates by the potstickers. The orthodox crate is about 5ft. long, 2ft. wide, and 2ft. deep, and is made with perforated, flat iron nailed on to a light pine frame. Made on the place, they cost about 15s each. They are swung between the ends of saplings projecting over the stage, and tied with wire. They have to be lifted out occassionally when they get clogged up, and a heavy, back-breaking lift it is, as the wool jammed in the perforations prevents the free egress of water. The cost of the whole plant, including stage, wire netting for draining and canvas binns, was about £10; sheets for the green represented another ten pounds. It is customary for the squattage to find the necessary material, and the contractor fixes it up.

A Deceptive Billet.

Potsticking looks easy, and so simple. You just work the wool to and fro in the crate with a long stick for a few minutes, then lift it out, also with the stick, and dump it on a hand barrow. Your mate helps you carry the latter up the bank to the drainers—wire-netting stretched across poles or logs on the edge of the "green." When you have been at it an hour you begin to think that pick and shovel work is a sinecure in comparison. I don't think any job deceives a newchum more than potsticking. He goes at it so bravely, so confidently, and with self-congratulations for having dropped into such a rosy collar. By-and-bye he begins to puff and sweat, and look round with a worried expression; a little later he begins to wonder why potstickers are so plentiful at the price. Yet I have seen little weeds of men work at it day after day for months with apparent ease; men who loved it, and would leave any other work for it. Use is everything, and, as the men say, "there is a knack in it."

Wages and Earnings.

The minimum rates fixed by the award are 38s per week with keep for adults; 30s a week for boys between 18 and 21; and 25s a week for boys under 18. Without keep the minimum pay for ordinary labourers is 48s per week of 48 hours; for overtime, 1s 6d an hour for the first two hours, and 2s an hour thereafter. At the Whittabranah scour five potstickers averaged about four bales of washed wool a day. Reckoning 2¾ cwt or 32s to the bale to the contractor, his daily earnings would be £6 8s. Out of this he had to pay, besides the potstickers, one man at the soak, two men on the green, and a cook; also for pressing and branding His net earnings would thus be about 30s a day. The pressing was done in the evening by two of the potstickers after they had finished their day's work at the crates. The award rates for this work are, by hand, 6¾d per cwt., or 1s 5¼d per bale; and, if dumped, 9d per cwt., or 1s 11d per bale; by power, 1½d per cwt., or 11¼d per bale; and if dumped, 6d per cwt., or 1s 6d per bale. A bale is treated as dumped when pressed down to 18 cubic feet, or to 3ft. 3in. in height. For weighing and branding an additional 2d per bale is allowed. When paid by time the presser receives £2 10s a week and keep.

Accommodation.

The squatter is required to provide "good and sufficient hut accommodation, cooking utensils, table utensils, clothes-washing utensils, wood, water, and sanitary conveniences . . . also a suitable room for the housing of saddles, harness, and cycles." He has further to allow free run for horses, and must have them brought to the shed, or supply a suitable horse for the purpose, when the work is completed, or when the employee is discharged. At the scour I have referred to some of the men were camped in tents; others in the open, finding dry lodgings on damp nights in the hessian bins erected for the protection of the dried wool. They had their meals under a bough shed, the table being a sheet of flat iron tacked on to a frame of bush timber, and the seats rough saplings supported by forked uprights. The chef operated in the open air. In that part of the country the only shelter really needed during the greater part of the year is the shade of a tree. But for the mosquitoes the nights would be very pleasant. The tender-skins who could not sleep in a ring of smoke staked a square of mosquito netting over their naps, and crawled under that. In the daytime the flies were a pest, and a man had either to smear his face with olive oil, wear a veil, or string corks round his hat.

On the Green.

The work on the green is light. The green is a level piece of ground about an acre in extent, enclosed with a brush or a cane-grass wall. Sometimes the wall is simply a semi-circle of bushes roughly heaped up to break the wind. As the bushes wither, they increase the work of the men on the green, for strong gusts of wind scatter leaves and twigs over the wool, and these have to be picked out. The old break is generally burnt off each year, and a new one built. The cane-grass wall is neat and lasting. The green is first enclosed with a wire fence; then the cane-grass, which is cut on a swampy plain, is closely threaded between the wires, somewhat in the manner that a roof is thatched.

It is always called the green, though there is seldom any green about it. The ground is covered with square sheets, over which the washed wool is thinly spread to dry. Each man works so many sheets, going over them constantly, picking the wool up in his hands, and shaking it out. In the north western part of the State dust storms interfere with the process of drying during the summer months. On the approach of one of those storms there is a rush to roll up the sheets of wool and stack them in the shed. When the storm has passed, unless it is late in the day, they are carried back and re-spread. The sheets are rolled also at sundown, and put out again in the morning.</story>