<story title="Road Workers" date="1916">
Every road has an interesting history, much of it tragic, humorous, and romantic; and no one knows it better, than the man who works on the road through rain and shine, through winter and summer. The dusty brown streak, which seems endless, undulating and winding amid the hills and timber, that means only weariness to the hurrying traveller, who describes it as lonely and dreary, has a story in every bend, in every dip and rise. To the walking tourist it is a fascinating study, for its records embody the records of the districts it traverses, and every local incident and episode of note are told there, where all sorts and conditions of men meet and pass. And what memories cling to it for those who have known it intimately from their earliest years; happy memories and sad memories, engraving every twist of that insentient ribbon of dust indelibly on the mind, making it forever loved or forever hated. Note the rapture, not unmingled with regret, with which an old couple goes over it after years of absence, discussing familiar spots, recalling half-forgotten names and things, marking the changes, and observing with keen interest where an old house has been pulled down and a new one has been built; and here and there they ask the road man about people they used to know.

Pioneer Tracks.

If the roadman is an old hand he can talk about his special thoroughfare for hours. He will probably know its history from when it was merely a blazed-tree line, marked for the guidance of a pioneer settler. Horsemen following that line made a bridle track, and that remained for years before the infrequent vehicular traffic had worn it into the greater prominence of a "dray road." A horse mailman linked the scattered settlers with the postal department, followed in the course of time by the mail coach. The difficulties of the coach driver and of contemporary teamsters in crossing unbridged creeks and gullies, and ploughing over boggy flats, accentuated by an occasional capsize, by damage and loss, and by delays through rain and flood, brought the first gangs of men to make a more passable way. When the surveyors had done their part; much of the old road was lost in the twists and deviations that had been cut out.

Sometimes the original track is formed by the first travellers following a surveyor's line; sometimes a bush road is proclaimed a public road after it has been in general use a long while. Till then it has been nobody's business to look after it. Such a road is at times slightly improved by the settlers who have to use it frequently. A few stones and a load or two of gravel are tipped here and there in the boggiest parts, and a rough bridge of logs and saplings is thrown across a bad creek or gully.

Clearing Gangs.

Road making, where the population is thin, is a wearisomely slow process to the settler. It is an event of great importance to him when the clearing gangs get to work, grubbing and hewing away, a chain wide, through the forest. That alone is an improvement, for he hasn't then, when driving along after a storm, to pull round a fallen tree, or drag a limb off the track at every few yards. The clearing is heavy work, and the cluster of white tents is conspicuous by the wayside for months. The trees are partly grubbed out, and partly hauled down by the stump extractor or "forest devil." The trees, as far as possible, are thrown at right angles to the line, so that in most cases the tops fall clear, and there is only the trunk to cut up and roll aside. A big gang, working in heavy forest, is composed of several sections; the navvies who do the pick and shovel work, and help with the extracting apparatus; crosscut sawyers and axemen; a bullock or horse driver; an overseer and a cook. A little excitement comes the way of the clearers when they strike a bees' nest, which is always robbed, and the store of honey taken to the camp. Wasps' nests are sometimes more frequently met with than those of bees, and are less pleasant to deal with. The mass of stuff removed from the line, added to the smash caused by falling giants, makes an impassable barrier along each side, which slowly disappears in the summer fires. The scrub is an agreeable field to work in—if it is not infested with mosquitos and leeches; but the brush is not so easily got rid of, on account of the dense and tangled growth on either side, and is sometimes, on a long contract, left till it is dry enough to be fired on the road. Among steep hills and ranges, where the road proceeds in curves and zig-zags, clearing is interesting, if sometimes more difficult.

A Long Job.

These roads provide a long job for successive gangs of men. The work of the first, who form the road after the clearing gang has finished, is almost wholly done with picks and shovels. On level country the sides are ploughed; but along the sides of steep ridges and ranges the plough can't be used. This winding track, cut down on its upper side and ballasted on the lower, and requiring frequent culverts and bridges to connect at watercourses and hollows, is the one that most interests the road engineer; and it is also an interesting one to the traveller, though he may travel five miles to reach a point which an airman could reach in three. Until it is properly finished it suffers severely in heavy downpours of rain; and when it is finished it requires constant watching by the maintenance men.

Stone Nappers.

The stone nappers who follow have a lengthy contract, though they work only on sections of the road. Very few roads are completed straight out. A few chains are macadamised here, a few chains there, perhaps miles away, the intervening spaces being left as long as they can be negotiated in average weather by the regular traffic. Each section, if far apart, employs several groups of men—quarrymen, carters and stone nappers. The latter are paid by the yard, and are required to heap their metal in regulation form convenient for measurement. The wise inspector roots into a heap here and there, if he doesn't know his workmen, to make sure that the neat heap of blue metal is not built on a body of unbroken stone, or that it is all broken to the stipulated size. In one contract on a North Coast road a lot of money was paid away for knobs of earth. The ground was lumpy thereabouts, and instead of choosing a level spot, some of the nappers made a practice of building each of their heaps round a good-sized knob, which occupied the space of from half a yard to a yard of road metal. The heaps sometimes remain a long while as the nappers leave them before the metal is spread on the road, and finally rolled and blinded.

Working Plants.

It would be hard to say how many men are directly employed in connection with the roads; but it is an old saying that, when other work is scarce, there is always a job to be had on the roads. That work never ceases; gangs are always mending and making somewhere. Most of the work, such as clearing, forming and metalling, is let by tender; and almost every town numbers among its citizens at least one who is described as a road contractor. Some inland towns keep a dozen plants continuously employed. A plant consisting of half a dozen navvies' drays, a dozen draught horses, harness, plough, picks and shovels, tents, campware, axes and hammers, and a light forge, costs about 400. Some contractors, taking light jobs and short sections, work with only one or two drays; others, in forming sections of roads, require only a couple of horses and a plough, in addition to hand tools. Many confine their operations to carting contracts, being paid by the load for stone, gravel and sand. The usual wages of pick and shovel men are 8s and 9s per day of eight hours, when the men find themselves; outside town, where all hands are camped by the work in hand, 6s to 7s a day and found.

Main Roads of the State.

The four great main roads of New South Wales are the Southern Road, 385 miles in length, which runs from Sydney to Albury; the South Coast Road, 250 miles in length, which runs along the coast range from Campbelltown and through the Illawarra district to Bega, whence it continues as a minor road to the border; the Western Road, 513 miles, which runs via Bathurst and Orange to Bourke, from which place a minor road, 130 miles long, runs to the border at Hungerford; the Northern Road, 406 miles, which runs from Morpeth to Maryland. The approximate length of roads in this State in 1914 was set down at 95,000 miles. Of this total only 16,500 miles were metalled, ballasted, or gravelled; 11,300 miles were formed only; 27,300 miles were cleared only; and the balance, about 40,000 miles, were described officially as "natural surface," but are generally termed bush roads. While the traveller passes maintenance men and working gangs at intervals on all the made roads and roads in course of making, he seldom meets one on the bush road, for that road has to look after itself until it has reached the "formed" stage. Every year adds to the number and length of roads, all adding grist to the mill of the road-maker.

Culverts and Ferries.

Bridge-building belongs to another class of workers, but culverts are often constructed by ordinary road contractors. In 1914 there were 36,565 culverts in the State, aggregating 422,950ft. The bridges and culverts were supplemented by 128 ferries. The ferryman is an important link to the traveller by road. In most instances the ferry is subsidised by Government, the amount of the subsidy being determined by tender; but on some of the main streams the ferryman pays an annual sum for the privilege of running the ferry, this sum being also decided by tender. He has a monotonous time in some places, but in others plenty of business and excitement come his way. On a stock route he has often to ferry over a big mob of cattle. Like the maintenance man, he has to work in all weathers, and he has to do some night work also—up to about 9 o'clock.

The Maintenance Man.

The maintenance man is a familiar object on all made roads. A steady job is his, for he goes on soon after the road is completed, and he is there or thereabouts for ever afterwards. As it is particularly necessary for him to be on the road with his pick and shovel in wet weather, repairing washaways and draining off pools of water, the regulations require him to include oilskins and watertight boots in his equipage. Outside the towns he lives in a tent, pitched by the roadside. Though he may have no neighbour within miles of him for weeks at a stretch, his lot is not the loneliest in the bush, for it is on the roads that carry a fair amount of traffic that he finds permanent employment. All manner of travellers driving along the many diverging ways give him greeting, but to him the king of the highway is the road inspector, who, driving along in many diverging ways, from the hub of his district, completes the ever-busy army of road workers.</story>