<story title="Miners and Prospectors" date="1916">
It is an old saying among miner's that there are big goldfields in Australia still waiting to be discovered, and the lucky finds made now and again at Bathurst, where the first gold was got in 1851, seem to point that way. A good-sized nugget was unearthed there in September, 1914, by Ronald McNivar, an old mining identity, whose name had been bobbing up from time to time in connection with nuggets for a generation or more. He struck nearly 500 worth close to the same spot some years earlier. He had worked about there ever since: and hundreds of thousands of other miners had tried their luck on the same historic fields since the roaring fifties; yet the later nugget lay quite near the surface.

An alluvial gold mine is a very useful thing to have about the premises. As often as not it is discovered by somebody accidentally stubbing his toe against an outcrop, perhaps while looking for horses, or for a waterhole whereat to quench a desperate thirst. A lonely Queenslander once discovered a payable field through having an altercation with his dog. He picked up a stone to throw at the animal, but immediately noticed the weight, and then the glitter of it here and there; and the next moment he had heaved his hat into the atmosphere, and was patting the dog. Broken Hill, the world's biggest silver mine, was discovered by a boundary-rider, who was thinking about sheep; and Mount Browne goldfield first revealed its secret to two horsemen who had knelt down to drink at a little running stream. Coarse specks of water-worn gold, which even the inexperienced eye could not mistake, gleamed on the sandy bed. That mystic locality, which saw a wild rush at first, and lured many a digger across the thirsty plains to his death, is still a profitable specking field after rain.

In the Dry Zones.

The scarcity of water is the greatest handicap to far inland prospecting. It does not deter men from rushing forth when a long guarded secret of mother earth has been revealed, and the tracks to dry-zone bonanzas in plenty have been paved with human bones. There have been numerous instances, too, of solitary prospectors perishing after locating patches that would have made them rich men. One of the famous fields of W.A., called Dunn's Find, from the digger who made it known, bore unmistakable evidence of previous discovery. Lumps had been chopped off the rich outcrop, whilst traces remained where some of the quartz had been dollied. Before Dunn struck this spot the remains of a prospector were found lying not far from the skeleton of a horse, still saddled, in the neighbourhood of Mount Burgess. A chamois bag found with the body contained 70oz. of rough gold. It is surmised that the dead man was the first discoverer of "Dunn's Find," and was making back to Coolgardie when he was overcome by thirst. Other men have made rich finds, as evidenced by the specimens they carried, and their secrets have perished with them. The prospector generally keeps his movements secret; if he has anything good in view he doesn't want the world to know where he is working until he has decided where to peg out his claim; and so he takes more risks than other workers in the bush.

The numerous fields that have come to light as the result of accident, discovered in many instances by men who knew nothing about mining, and the "lucky finds" still made intermittently on very old grounds, indicate that there has not yet been a very great deal of systematic prospecting. Some of the skilled miners who work on wages in big permanent mines, like Bendigo, Mount Morgan and Broken Hill, depart occasionally from their regular occupations, and employ themselves with varying fortune in this direction. There are hundreds of miners, men in whom the fever never dies, who would avail themselves of the chance of prospecting far and wide if only guaranteed their tucker and tobacco by the Government. They prospect when they get the chance, but rarely for long, unless they strike a patch that will support them, for want of provisions and clothes compels them to seek other work.

Assistance to Prospectors.

In the Northern Territory prospectors are given rations and some monetary assistance, and grants on a generous scale are made to discoverers of metalliferous ores. In other States prospecting is encouraged, principally in the way of deep sinking, not only for gold, but for other minerals. Men prospecting for opal at White Cliffs, for instance, were liberally assisted in specified localities. For sinking they were granted 2s 6d a foot in picking ground; 7s 6d a foot in coarse conglomerate; 12s 6d a foot in fine-grained conglomerate; with an additional allowance of 6d per foot on all sinking over 50ft. deep; and for driving, 2s 6d per foot in picking ground. All the shafts were to be sunk to a depth of 50ft., and continued to a greater depth if prospects warranted it; but reasons for sinking below the 50ft. level had to be set out fully, and the consent of the board obtained. Until 1913 White Cliffs was the most important opal mining centre in Australia; but in that year the production from the Lightning Ridge field, near Walgett, nearly doubled in value the output of the Cliffs. New South Wales and Queensland are the only two States in which opal mining is largely carried on, only small quantities of the precious stone being found elsewhere. The principal buyers—before the war—were German firms, agents for which were operating on every important field.

Men Employed.

It is reckoned that about 100,000 persons were engaged in mining in the Commonwealth during 1913. Of this total the pursuit of gold employed, in round numbers, 34,000; coal and shale, 23,500; copper, 13,000; silver, lead and zinc, 11,000; tin, 7500; and the balance distributed among other minerals, the principal of which were antimony, bismuth, chrome, diamonds, opal, wolfram and iron. There are a great number of men who do not style themselves miners when stating their occupations, but who nevertheless do a good deal of mining and prospecting from time to time. In season men leave the silver mines of Broken Hill, the copper mines of Cobar, the Burra and Cloncurry, and the opal fields of White Cliffs, for the shearing sheds. Others work for short periods in the mines when their usual work is unobtainable. Men employed on big runs, as stockmen and boundary-riders, whose avocation takes them into lonely mountain gullies that are very rarely trodden by other humans, search for minerals whenever they come to a promising spot, and have time to look round.

Precious Stones.

Minerals of various sorts, from precious stones to gold, are so widely distributed over Australia, that there are few bushmen who do not give a thought to them while following their ordinary pursuits. Those who possess some knowledge of mining do a little quiet prospecting in odd corners; and when digging post holes, sinking wells, and so forth, the eye is always alert for minerals, especially for gold and precious stones. The best known and most commonly sought after of these are sapphires, emeralds, turquoises, topazes, zircons, garnets, agates, rubies, crocidolites, tourmalines, beryls, and chiastolites, or luck stones. Some of these, as emeralds, require hard and deep mining to obtain; others, as agates and sapphires, occur plentifully in the beds of creeks. Diamonds, one of the gems systematically mined for, are also obtained from the gravel beds of streams. Travellers looking for work in sparsely-settled country, and on tracks that are little used, search these beds for precious stones, as well as for gold.

Fossickers.

Swagmen are frequently met on bush tracks who have a collection of stones in a small bag, specimens varying in value from a few pence to many pounds. They have been gathered here and there, over a wide scope of country, perhaps in different States. The collection is freely displayed at a camp fire, where a couple or more travellers have chanced to meet; but no information as to where they were obtained is volunteered, and rarely is the fossicker questioned on that point. He speaks of good things he knows, and which he intends to probe into as soon as he can get a bit of money for working purposes. It is probably months before he gets work, or disposes of his gems, by which time he is a few hundred miles from the locale of his good things, and, perhaps, never goes back.

Not a few of these fossickers subsist entirely on their gleanings. They never work for wages; but are ever wandering, ever searching about the bush. They find enough of one kind and other to keep them, and now and again they strike a good patch, and make a rise. Precious stones and gold are the principal items sought for, little consideration being given by the average fossicker to silver, copper and tin. The value of the tin production in the Commonwealth is nearly a million and a half per annum. Mining for this metal is one of the favourite pursuits of the Chinese in Queensland. The bulk of the output comes from Tasmania, Queensland, and New South Wales. The greater part of New South Wales' contribution is got by dredging.

One of the minerals that was brought into special request by the war was molybdenite, obtained in the New England, Pambula, and Chillagoe (Q.) districts, also in the northern part of Western Australia. Renewed interest was given to this mining by the Federal Government undertaking to purchase, on behalf of the Imperial Government, the whole of the Australian output of the metal from prospectors and buying agents.

Miners' Wages.

The rates of wages paid to miners vary slightly in the different States, the highest being in Western Australia. In gold, copper, silver and lead, and other mines (excepting coal), in New South Wales, the different classes of workmen are paid as follows: Battery feeders, 51s to 55s 6d per week; brace men, 54s to 63s; engine drivers (stationary), 60s to 75s (winding and locomotive), 66s to 78s; firemen, 54s to 60s; labourers, 55s; miners (dry work), 57s to 63s (wet work), 63s to 69s; platmen, 54s to 63s; shaftsinkers (dry work), 59s to 78s (wet work), 65s to 78s; shift bosses and timbermen, 60s to 72s. In West Australia the latter receive 80s to 84s; shaft-sinkers, 90s to 100s; miners, 70s to 84s; and labourers, 64s 6d to 66s. Here and there in New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia, and the western State, prospectors are supported by syndicates, the ruling rate being about 3 a week.

These syndicates are often formed of working men. A party of three, prospecting on deep levels in southern Queensland, was supported by a syndicate of stockmen, working on three adjoining runs. Each member contributed a portion of his wages weekly to make up the pay of the prospectors. They held meetings periodically at a wayside pub, where the prospects were discussed, and future operations decided upon. Another party was supported by selectors and drovers. There are parties scattered about the bush also who are paid by miners and mine labourers, who are permanently employed on wages. The contributing miner holds that he can't get rich on wages, and he invests what he can spare from his earnings in the search for nature's hidden treasures.</story>