<story title="The Tanksinker" date="1916">
The dry conditions that prevail in the great north-western corner of New South Wales, provide a numerous body of men with employment. These are the wellsinkers, dam-makers, scoopers, and tanksinkers, who have been pegging away in that arid region which stretches from the Darling River to beyond the Queensland border, almost since the formation of the first squattage.

The maps show a number of watercourses over this area, but like a good many of the lakes shown in other parts, they are merely depressions in the landscape. A heavy fall of rain will cause a roaring flood in any of them, and often the water spreads over the flat country in an unbroken sheet for 30 miles or more; but in a week or so it has all vanished, and a little later a man might follow them till he perished in search of a pothole to get a drink at. The winding, dark lines of stunted timber looming across the plains look promising, but they merely mark the usual dried-up course where the sand burns and glistens in the sun. One may travel 300 miles in a straight line and not cross one creek that could be said to contain a single permanent waterhole. The western corner possesses only one natural reservoir that has never been dry. It is not very big, and is situated almost in the centre of what is called the Stony Desert. That is Depot Glen, where, in the shadow of Mount Poole, Captain Sturt and his little band were drought-bound through the summer of 1844.

Well Sinking.

Desert, as applied to that quarter, is a misnomer. In fair seasons the plains and flats and low hills, where the dancing haze plays fantastic tricks and mirages mock the traveller, are covered with Mitchell grass; and the salt bush remains green all the year round, notwithstanding the severest droughts. Though the value of this latter fodder was not at first recognised by pastoralists, they were soon alive to the importance of the open country for sheep runs. There were many disasters at first, through the pioneers placing too much reliance on the small lakes and waterholes. Later settlers, profiting by this experience, put down wells immediately as a standby. It was a hazardous undertaking, for at times several would be put down before a permanent supply of water was struck, and occasionally, when a good flow of water was tapped, it was found too brackish for even stock use. Well-sinking became a trade, and hundreds of pounds were made at it by gangs of men who made it their special calling. They were paid by the foot for sinking and timbering. When water was obtained a pump or a bucket and windlass was rigged over the well, and troughs were run out from it for watering the sheep, which were then mostly shepherded.

The Salvation of the Western Squatter.

It was a slow process, and some improved upon it by erecting whims and jinny-wheels, the water being then drawn up by horse power, and stored in square tanks built of casing and sheet iron. These are still in use on many of the runs; on others, the old fashioned "boxes" have given place to riveted oblong, iron tanks; but well-sinking—except at the homesteads, on selections, and here and there on big properties in central parts of the country—has long been discontinued as a general means of obtaining water for stock. Most of the homesteads have wells or underground tanks; but the stock water chiefly at dams and excavated tanks. Damming was first tried for conserving water in big creeks, but was not an unqualified success. A bank was made with earth, stones and brush across a narrow channel below a deep hole, an overflow or a by wash being provided for the escape of flood waters. In Western Queensland the overflow answers well, but in the arid triangle of New South Wales the fine, powdery soil dissolves or crumbles away, and the action of the water undermines the embankment, and eventually the whole collapses. Excavations became the vogue, and proved the salvation of the western squatter.

Prices and Wages.

The tanksinker had a good time in the first years of his work. He got a shilling a yard, and, in some instances more than that; and with only three hired men he could complete a 10,000yd. tank in three or four months. Living, of course, was a little dearer and wages higher in those parts when so much remained to be done to make existence there tolerably comfortable; but still the profits were considerable. Afterwards the same work was done for as low as 4c a yard, and there was more haggling over an eighth of a penny in the price than there was formerly over three-penny differences. Wages were then a pound to thirty shillings a week and keep. The squatter found the plant—scoops, ploughs and horses; but the tanksinker had to make most of his swinglebars, repair all breaks, and do his own blacksmithing. His hours were as long as a dairyman's; he started before daylight to muster his horses, and thence he was rushing and bustling till dark, when he had, perhaps, to drive the horses three or four miles away to put them on good feed. Most men are in a restless hurry at piecework, but the tank contractor took the bakehouse for rushing.

His prices had improved again by the time the European war broke out, though the available work, with competition, did not keep him continuously in harness. In slack times he took other contracts, such as erecting sheep yards, sheds, and rabbit proof fences. Hired labour had advanced from 35/ to 50/ per week and found, whilst working time had been reduced to about 48 hours a week. Still, the man who watched the clock, and was particular about overtime, was not the sort the contractor chased with offers of work. He was always busy himself, and often needed a helping hand, which he did not consider it should be necessary to ask for when his men were "off duty."

An Industrious Contractor.

Wood and water are both absent quantities in the vicinity of the average tank site, and have often to be carted several miles. One contractor who was responsible for a few tanks and dams in Tongowoko county, usually devoted part of his Sunday to this task, the water being carried in two square iron tanks on a heavy dray. The latter was propped up near the camp, and every time a bucket of water was wanted there was a climb up to dip it from the tank. This water got lukewarm in the sun, and so canvas bags had to be filled overnight and hung in the shade for next day's use. The man worked in the excavation till sundown, then horses were hurriedly unharnessed and driven to the waterholes to drink, and afterwards on to grass. This occupied at least one man till 8 or 9 o'clock. The horses were mustered at daylight, and watered again before being brought to camp. Naturally, the animals soon got poor and leg-weary, and a big mob in reserve was needed to keep the work going. This contractor worked 12 horses a day in the excavation, and he wore out 60 horses a month.

He had often a little work to do at the forge after tea, when less-industrious people were wasting their time reading, talking, or sleeping. There was a link to put in a broken chain, swinglebars to be remounted, picks and ploughshares to point. This work was done by the firelight or in the moon light. If the damaged gear could be dispensed with, and the nights were dark and hot, the repairing was left till Sunday. There was an awful accumulation of work at times for Sunday.

His Camp.

Butchering was also done at night—by the light of a slush lamp. A week's supply of sheep was left him at a time by the nearest boundary-rider, and they were kept in a small pen and fed with cut grass until killed. This imposed a further nightly task of cutting a bag of grass. Besides all this he had a good deal of harness-mending to do, and here again the flickering slush-lamp proved invaluable. He was a handy man, take him all round; a busy man with a hungry, worried look from long hours and continual rushing. The site of a new tank is usually chosen on a narrow flat, commanding a large catchment area, as near the centre of the paddock as possible, and within easy reach of a clump of trees where sheep can shelter in the heat of the day. The tanksinker pitches camp close by, building a flat-topped bough shed for a living room, and using a canvas hut or tent for sleeping in. A rough, sapling yard, a forge and a fireplace, are also made. The latter are placed half a chain or more from the inflammable building, the fireplace being roofless, and surrounded by a low stone wall to protect it from the fierce winds.

An Ordinary Tank.

An ordinary tank is from 12ft to 20ft deep. The sides slope, of course, to permit sheep to go in and out, whilst another bank or parapet is built right round on top with the earth that is carried out of the excavation. Ploughing is the easiest part of the work, as that is always on a level bottom, though the horses have to turn on the end batters. Scooping necessitates a climb up and down the batters with every load, which is hard on men and horses. When the excavation is complete, a small catch-tank is made above it, and fluming is run from it through the made bank to the top of the batter, whence a chute—built of rails, posts and galvanised iron, riveted and tarred—carries the water to the bottom. This saves the sides from being damaged by corrosion, and prevents debris and silt from being washed in. Despite this, however, tanks silt up in heavy dust storms, and have to be periodically cleaned out. There is seldom any protection about them, the planting of hedges and trees being rarely thought of, and tons of sand are whirled over the banks every summer, providing scoopers with work when there is no excavating to do. The scoops are also employed now and again in clearing the banked up sand away from fences, troughs and yards.

Trial Shafts.

It occasionally happens that an expensive tank when finished is found to be worthless. A heavy thunderstorm fills it, and a few days later it is empty again, the ground being too porous to hold the water; or, perhaps, it has bottomed on an old bed, which proves to be a veritable sieve. The rain that has filled it has probably left the paddock knee-deep in Mitchell grass, and though stock may be practically starving in other paddocks, this feed has to waste for want of convenient water. It is a common experience in this dry zone to have an abundance of feed and no water on one part of a run, and plenty of water but no feed on other parts.

To obviate mistakes of the kind mentioned, trial shafts are sunk on the site of a projected tank to ascertain the nature of the soil and to avoid rocks. Even with these precautions, a patch of rock or sandstone is often met with in excavations, and has to be blasted and picked out. This not only delays operations, but occasions much more black-smithing than usual. Some tanks, too, turn out to be crumbly, and break away under the horses' hoofs, spoiling the batters. This kind of ground bogs when sheep come to water there, unless specially prepared; and a boggy tank, requiring constant watching and entailing much labour, is the next worse thing to a tank which won't hold water.</story>