<story title="Odd Jobbers" date="1916">
Of the large floating population of Australia, there is a considerable section known as odd-job men among "bush workers." These are never working very long in one place, until they drop eventually into something of a permanent nature, and then the ranks they have left are filled by others. Shearers, drovers, prospectors, and so forth belong more or less to the floating population; but each of these groups follows a particular calling. The odd-jobbers do not specialise; but take anything they can get. Such is the course of the new arrival, or a townsman driven by the want of employment to shoulder his swag, and take the road that leads indefinitely "up north," or "out west," or it may be "down south."

Only an odd swagman has a more fixed destination than that, for he never knows where he is going to pull up. He may tramp for months without getting a day's work, and he may chance upon a good billet the first day. The hope eternal buoys him up, and no matter how long the road may be, or where the search may lead him, he finds plenty to help him on. To the willing unemployed, the man of energy, the constant movement on the track is better than waiting about. It also gives him a better opportunity of learning what is going on about the country. He hears that something is doing, or a hand or two are wanted, at a certain place, and he makes for there. He is more often disappointed than not in such cases, for other travellers have steered for the same place, and the prize has gone to the first-comers. He seems at times to be pursuing a Will-o-the-wisp, which he chases from place to place, for hundreds of miles, for weeks and months. In direct contrast to this, at other times he can't go wrong, as he puts it, and picks up a job almost anywhere.

At Home on the Track.

He makes for the sheds and yards in the sheep-breeders' busy seasons, for there he may obtain a few weeks' work as rouseabout, yardman, or even as musterer. Being in the habit of accepting anything, providing the wages are satisfactory, and practising his hands at so many things, he is generally a handy person. The handier he is the more work he gets. Sometimes he is a footman, sometimes a horseman. He has no fixed abode once he launches upon this wandering quest. He is domiciled here for awhile, there for a short period, and always on being paid off he goes back to the track. He becomes quite at home there, tramping along serenely through the day, and camping wherever the set of sun might find him. At times, after earning a cheque, he has a holiday in town, and not infrequently takes the track again, hard up, and feeling the worse for the change he has enjoyed. Being penniless does not worry the veteran who is used to knocking around.

An Economical System of Living.

There are men who never hold their money long, who are always knocking around in the same condition as they started, and whose only home in life's twilight is a camp by the Darling River, where the old age pension, eked out by fishing and game-trapping, supplies their frugal wants. Very old are some of these before they quit the track for good, so old that nobody will give them anything to do; and their patriarchal appearance forces them to retire. There are others who hoard up their earnings, banking every shilling they can possibly spare from bare necessaries. Many an old battler, apparently hard-up, has been discovered to have a banking account of four figures. Living under the most economical system that is possible in a civilised country, they are able to put by all but a trifling portion of their yearly gleanings. They are not always working for wages; they take piecework, do a bit of mining, and occasionally invest in shares which they know to be sound. Others, again, have relatives somewhere to whose keep they contribute; or they help to maintain a home which they very rarely see. Young and old, they all belong to the army of wandering workers who help in the progress of inland settlement.

Contracts.

Bush and forest clearing, grubbing and burning off, are contracts at which they make good cheques, combining at times charcoal burning, for which they receive a shilling a bag, the charcoal being used in smithies in place of coal. Two men on a Richmond River run were given a contract of cutting down bean trees (Moreton Bay chestnut) along the watercourses. The bean tree is a valuable wood, much in request for cabinet-making and fancy work; but that did not count with the pastoralist.

It was alleged that cattle ate the beans, and died from poisoning. The contractors were paid 4d for all trees of four inches and over in diameter at the stump. The smaller stuff had to be cut down with the rest, though nothing under the specified dimensions was paid for. Many of the trees ran to two feet in diameter. The big ones were cut high, and the small ones low, many of them close to the ground—to get the required measurement. The contract lasted three months, and the axemen cleared a little over 90 each—which was about 7 a week all through. Plums of this sort, of course, are not found on every track; but the knockabout always has the chance of making a rise.

Scrub Cutting.

His work is largely regulated by the seasons, and so he keeps an eye on the rainfall in the districts around him. Heavy rains bring floods, and floods cause washaways on roads, dams, fences, &c. As the damage needs repairing immediately, the earliest available men are put on. On runs where drought holds sway, there is shepherding to do, scrub-cutting to feed starving stock, skinning dead sheep and plucking dead wool. The latter is an unpleasant job, for which there is rarely a rush of applicants. Yet good cheques have been made at it where the mortality has been heavy. Sometimes the work is paid for by the week, from 30s to 40s and keep, or at the rate of a penny to threepence per pound of wool.

Scrub-cutting is paid for by the week. The men work in small gangs, camping where there is good scrub, convenient to water. One or two horsemen are required to muster the starving animals, and keep them distributed on the feed. Some of the smaller trees are cut down; but lopping is the general practice, so that the trees will top again for another season. The axemen have therefore much climbing to do.

Bush Haymaking.

In normal seasons, particularly in Mitchell-grass country, there is a good deal of bush haymaking done. On some of the clear plains mowing machines are used, the work and conditions then being similar to those on harvesting fields. On other places the grass is cut with scythes; and on others, again, where the growth is patchy, with reaping-hooks. Mitchell grass is the only hay stored at a great many of the central homesteads, and is used for stable feeding as well as a stand-by for starving stock in drought time. Seed is also collected from this grass—and from blue grass, Flinders grass, and other valuable drought-resisting native grasses, for which there is always a steady demand.

Another grass that is extensively cut, and which provides a lot of employment in the interior, is cane grass. It is the product of swampy plains, and is used for thatching sheds, various outhouses, wind-breaks, and walls around wool-drying grounds. The ground where it grows is generally lumpy, hard to walk over, and is a favourite haunt of snakes. The grass makes a clean, neat wall or roof, and far inland, wherever the material is obtainable, such structures are common.

Where the grass does not grow, some of the shearing sheds are roofed with boughs. These make a lot of litter about the board and pens when old and decaying, and the roof has to be partially renewed every year before shearing commences. There is always a wood contract about the same time, a good many cords being wanted for the huts. Occasionally there is a bit of rough carpentering needed also, for the huts fire used all the year round by travellers, some of whom are not particular what they burn if there is no firewood handy. For that reason a lot more wood than is necessary for the shearers and rouseabouts is usually cut at these sheds, the surplus being a thoughtful provision for the knockabouts who may choose to camp there for a night or two, or during wet weather.

Burr-Cutting.

Burr-cutting is another annual job on runs where this bane of the sheep breeder has established itself. The burrs get into the wool, and besides depreciating the value of that product, the sheep with burry fleeces are objectionable to the shearer. The careful pastoralist keeps his run clean, and thus spends a good sum annuall in burr country on the eradication of the pest. The odd jobber, who looks regularly for this work, knows where to go, and the exact time of the year when his services at different places will be required. Here again the season is a factor to be considered. A better rainfall will cause the crop to be more forward in some parts than in others. He also inquires of other travellers whether they have seen any burrs, and where the welcome weed is most plentiful, displaying the interest in this noxious vegetable of a keen botanist.

Yarns used to be told in the back country to the effect that certain old battlers were wont to gather the seed on burr infested runs, and sow them promiscuously on clean runs, and here and there along the track for hundreds of miles. The following season they would travel the same track again, looking for the job they had prepared for themselves.

Travellers of all descriptions carry the seed about unintentionally, for it clings to their blankets and their clothes. It also secures a grip in the dog's hair, in the horse's mane and tail, and on the wool of travelling sheep. The traveller generally takes the greatest care to avoid contact with the tenacious pest; but he picks up some here and there, all the same, and sheds them perhaps far away from their original habitat. It is on camping grounds that the pest usually gets its initial footing. On account of its easy and varied means of dissemination, run owners who strive to get rid of it start the burr-cutting work before the bulk of the plants have seeded, and much of the seeded portion is collected and burnt.

Prickly Pear.

A perennial is the prickly pear, which, in parts of Queensland, offers succour to the out-of-work in all seasons. He can even have the ground it grows on from the Government on condition that he roots out every vestige of the prickly horror from the patch he cares to select. Attacking a compact mass of it is worse than cutting a way through bush wire entanglements. He is not often tempted by the offer to settle down there, and he looks upon prickly pear cutting as a last resource, when he is hard up, and no other job is available. He is paid up to 50/ a week and found, but the spinous armament of the vile cactus is difficult to avoid, and it leaves painful sores wherever it penetrates the skin. A good deal of the rest-time of the cutter is spent in extracting "prickles."</story>