<story title="Squattage Hands" date="1916">
The average worker on a sheep or cattle run is supposed to be a generally useful person; but the work is not of an extensively varied character. The ordinary labourer is often generally useless. This is not always his own fault, as there are managers who prefer quantity to quality, and will pass almost any kind of a botch, providing it has been done quickly and cheaply. The cost of repairs in the monthly account is thus low; in the bad old days this allowed a lot of private jobs to be worked in. Another little scheme was worked in the ration line. If the men had got the full allowances of everything granted by the Pastoralists' Union, they would have lived pretty well, and been contented. But half what the men should have had was consumed by visitors, the frequency of whose calls was remarkable just after the loading came up. When the jam, pickles, and other luxuries were done, the visiting crowd became too busy at home to call round, and tennis parties, balls, and so forth, ceased until the next supplies were due. To adjust the flour and sugar account at such times numerous charity rations were booked to imaginary travellers, while the real traveller was turned away with empty bags, or at best with a bit of scraggy meat.

Former Conditions.

The usual pay of the employees was a pound a week and keep. When batching for themselves, the weekly rations allowed were 10lb. of flour, 12lb. of meat, 2lb. of black sugar, and lb. of "post and rail" tea. Married couples received double rations, and when the wife was employed as well as the husband, the wage was from 70 to 100 a year. The hours were from daylight till nearly dark. On some places there was a bell, affixed to the top of a high pole, which was rung about 4 o'clock in the morning to call the men to work. Accommodation was of the roughest description—huts of split slabs, with no furniture, excepting where the men had their meals, and that consisted of a long table and two or three stools. The men provided their own bunks, made of saplings and bags, and the number sleeping in a room was decided by the number of bunks that could be ranged round the walls. In some of the big huts, especially in shearers' huts, there were two tiers of bunks. These were constructed when the huts were built. The smellful slush-lamp was the common means of lighting; it figured as the centre-piece on the dining-table at night, and early on winter mornings.

Sunday Work.

Blacks and whites mingled together, for half the stockmen were aborigines. The whites lived under conditions almost as primitive as their dusky compatriots. The old-time squatter had a streak in his composition that was reminiscent of the slave boss. He had been spoiled in his beginnings by the convict system that gave him the labour of assigned servants for next to nothing. When these were no longer available, and blacks were unsuitable, he brought men from England on a 12 months' engagement at a small wage. He worked these as he liked; the semi-slaves were at times toiling half the night as well as all day on Sunday. Doing jobs on Sunday, for which there was no necessity was common, although the squatter begrudged his henchmen the restfulness of a Christian Sabbath.

Wages.

Conditions have improved greatly since then. The squatter has been civilised, and the men who civilised him were the shearers. The employees on a sheep run have an easier, if more monotonous life, as a rule, than those on a cattle run. Under the Accommodation Act, the insanitary hovels of yore have disappeared, and fairly decent huts are provided on the roughest places. Wages vary according to the class of work and the locality. Stockmen, for instance, receives 30s to 40s a week, and in far out places, 3 a week, in addition to keep. Boundary-riders are paid 25s to 35s per week; bullock-drivers, 30s to 42s per week; gardeners, 30s to 40s; rough carpenters3 and blacksmiths, 40s to 60s; rabbit poisoners, 30s to 40s; storekeeper and overseer, 40s to 80s a week each; and the cook, 40s to 50s a week. Married couples, when both parties are employed, receive up to 150 a year. These rates are in addition to board and lodging. Other men are employed temporarily from time to time; but these come under the heading of bush workers, who get a job here and a job there, taking anything that offers, from fencing to mustering, from burr cutting to tank-sinking. The squattage is the best prospect for the out-of-work, and in all seasons there are a good many men travelling from place to place in pastoral districts. They get more work there than among farmers—excepting in harvest time; and the unskilled labourer and the new chum have always a chance of picking up something. For the smart horseman it is the best field; he is never long out of employment even in the slackest times.

Stockmen.

The stockmen are the principal workers on a cattle run; but they do not amount to much on a sheep run. Cattlemen treat the merino stockmen as a joke. They are mainly boundary-riders, and anybody who can ride a quiet horse and repair a wire fence is competent to take that billet. The cattleman has to be a good buckjump rider, an expert bushman, and a smart hand generally among stock. He has rough horses to ride, a large run to work, embracing in its wide sweep of perhaps a thousand square miles or more, scrubby and rugged mountainous country, where the cattle roam freely, and are seldom better than half wild. Excepting in the branding yard, when hundreds of strong calves have to be hand-thrown, perhaps before breakfast, the work is not laborious; but the long hours at mustering time make it wearying. There is plenty of excitement in his life, and always the joy of the chase in the road and fragrant bush.

The stock-rider has to take to the saddle in his young days to be proficient. Mostly he learns to ride in his boyhood, not many make a success of it, where skilled horsemen are needed, who begin later in life. Between musterings he has fairly easy times—unless he has a batch of uncivilised colts to school. This provides him with brisk exercise; but the work day is short; so also are the days when he is riding about the run, keeping an eye on the stock, the watering-places, and the fences. He catches up a broken rail or a broken wire; beyond that repairing is generally left to the person who is employed for that purpose. The stockman seldom does any work outside his own particular calling.

Boundary-Riders.

There is a good deal of fencing to do on some runs; on others there is very little. New lines are usually erected by contract, short sections and repairs, together with the yards, keep at least one man constantly employed on the home run. Married couples are stationed at many of the out camps or sub-squattages. The man looks after the surrounding run and fences; the woman cooks for the stockmen when they are mustering there. Sometimes, if his run is a big one, he has an assistant.

The boundary-rider is more commonly as associated with the sheep run, where fences and watering-places require more watching than is necessary where cattle are pastured. He is generally alone, one being stationed here and there on distant, and often lonely, parts of the run. At mustering, lamb marking, and such times, the boundary riders are mobilised and constitute the musterers, or stockmen, augmented perhaps by a few temporary hands. When these brief periods are over they scatter again, each going back to his humble camp, to ride daily along lines of fences, to drive sheep from them, and out of corners, pull out bogged animals, and poison dingoes. Sometimes he has a hut to live in, sometimes only a tent, which, on the dry interior plains, is shifted from place to place in summer as water holes dry up. His only companion is his dog. It is a post well suited to the peculiar disposition of the bush hatter, for seldom comes anyone to his lonely abode to interrupt his day dreams, his night musings, and his solo conversations.

The Handy Man.

Fewer men are regularly employed on sheep-breeding than on cattle-breeding establishments, and unlike the employees on the latter, they have to do various kinds of rough work at the homestead, and on the run. The bullock-driver, for instance, whose chief avocation is drawing wood and other material, and carrying wool and stores, is at times engaged as stockman, fencer, scrub-cutter, and in other capacities. The book-keeper has charge of the store, and on small places he acts as overseer as well. The carpenter and blacksmith are usually merged into the handy man, that smart and useful person whom the exigencies of outback life have created to perform the duties of a dozen different tradesmen, where there is not sufficient work to keep one skilled artisan constantly employed. He can take on farming, dairying, shearing, gardening; any ordinary squattage work; tough carpentering, wheel wrighting, and blacksmithing, engine-driving, shoeing, painting, paperhanging, furniture and harness repairing; he is tinker, miner, cook and bricklayer, and a score of other things that in a city would be done by 20 different kinds of workmen. Though not professing to be proficient in most of these callings, there is little that occurs on a squattage that he cannot do in a fairly satisfactory way.

Other Employees.

On many big places a ploughman is kept, who applies himself exclusively to agricultural work. During hay making and other harvesting operations he has the assistance of any available labour on the place. He is often a married man. On some squattages a couple is employed, the wife as cook at the house, the man as ploughman, or as gardener and milkman. The cook at the hut is generally a man, though a married woman occasionally officiates there also, her husband being gardener and milkman, or groom and rouseabout. In rabbit-infested country a poisoner has to be kept. His is the worst billet of all, the fumes from the phosphorus and arsenic being injurious to health. He is much of his time alone, driving and camping about among the warrens. His camp is not sought by travellers, and few care to partake of his hospitable board.

Working on a squattage is regarded by the men as better than working on a farm. The life all-round is still pretty rough; but the squattage hand nowadays gets more time to himself than the farm hand. While the latter, after a year or two on a mixed farm, is capable of undertaking any ordinary work, excepting stock riding, on a pastoral holding, the squattage hand does not got the experience in his sphere of labour, that fits him to be at once a successful agriculturist. The casuals, however, are mostly men of all work, who go from one to the other. They are not horsemen, as the stockman and drover understand the term. These and the agriculturist, from the viewpoint of employees and employer, usually regard each other with mutual disfavour.</story>