 <story title="THE KIDNAPED MEMORIAL" date="1919">
Wakamin is a town with a soul. It used to have a sentimental
soul which got thrills out of neighborliness and "The
Star-Spangled Banner," but now it wavers between two generations,
with none of the strong, silly ambition of either. The pioneering
generation has died out, and of the young men, a hundred have
gone to that new pioneering in France. Along the way they will
behold the world, see the goodness and eagerness of it, and not
greatly desire to come back to the straggly ungenerous streets of
Wakamin. Those who are left, lords of the dead soul of Wakamin, go to
the movies and play tight little games of bridge and aspire only
to own an automobile, because a car is the sign of
respectability. Mr. Gale felt the savorlessness of the town within ten minutes
after he had arrived. He had come north to wind up the estate of
his cousin, the late proprietor of the Wakamin Creamery. Mr. Gale
was from the pine belt of Alabama but he did not resemble the
stage Southerner. There was a look of resoluteness and industry
about his broad red jaw. He spoke English very much like a man
from New York or San Francisco. He did not say "Yessuh," nor "Ah
declah"; he had neither a large white hat nor a small white
imperial; he was neither a Colonel nor a Judge. He was Mr. Gale,
and he practiced law, and he preferred lemonade to mint juleps.
But he had fought clear through the War for the Southern
Confederacy; and once, on a gray wrinkled morning before a
cavalry battle, he had spoken to Jeb Stuart. While he was settling up the estate, Mr. Gale tried out the
conversational qualities of the editor and the justice of the
peace, and gave up his attempt to get acquainted with the
Wakamites--except for Mrs. Tiffany, at whose house he went to
board. Mrs. Captain Tiffany was daughter and widow of Territorial
Pioneers. She herself had teamed-it from St. Paul, with her young
husband, after the War. The late Captain Tiffany had been the
last commander of the Wakamin G. A. R. Post, and Mrs. Tiffany had
for years been president of the Women's Relief Corps. After the
barniness of the Wakamin Hotel Mr. Gale was at home in her
cottage, which was as precise and nearly as small as the
whitewashed conch shell at the gate. He recovered from the
forlorn loneliness that had obsessed him during walks on these
long, cold, blue twilights of spring. Nightly he sat on the porch
with Mrs. Tiffany, and agreed with her about politics,
corn-raising, religion, and recipes for hot biscuits. When he was standing at the gate one evening of April, a small
boy sidled across the street, made believe that he was not
making-believe soldiers, rubbed one shin with the other foot,
looked into the matter of an electric-light bug that was
sprawling on its foolish back, violently chased nothing at all,
walked backward a few paces, and came up to Mr. Gale with an
explosive, "Hello!" "Evening, sir." "You staying with Mrs. Tiffany?" "Yes, for a while." "Where do you come from?" "I'm from Alabama." "Alabama? Why, gee, then you're a Southerner!" "I reckon I am, old man." The small boy looked him all over, dug his toe into the
leaf-mold at the edge of the curb, whistled, and burst out, "Aw,
gee, you aren't either! You don't wear gray, and you haven't got
any darky body servant. I seen lots of Confederuts in the movies,
and they always wear gray, and most always they got a body
servant, and a big sword with a tossel on it. Have you got a
sword with a tossel?" "No, but I've got a suit of butternuts back home." "Gee, have you? Say, were you ever a raider?" "No, but I know lots about raiders, and once I had dinner with
Colonel Mosby." "Gee, did you? Say, what's your name? Say, are you a
gen'rul?" "No, I was a high private. My name is Gale. What is your name,
if I may ask you, as one man to another?" "I'm Jimmy Martin. I live across the street. My dad's got a
great big phonograph and seventy records. Were you a high
private? How high? Gee, tell me about the raiders!" "But James, why should a loyal Northerner like you desire to
know anything about the rebel horde?" "Well, you see, I'm the leader of the Boy Scouts, and we
haven't any Scout Master, at least we did have, but he moved
away, and I have to think up games for the Scouts, and gee, we're
awfully tired of discovering the North Pole, and being Red Cross
in Belgium, and I always have to be the Eskimos when we discover
the North Pole, or they won't play, and I thought maybe we could
be raiders and capture a Yankee train." "Well, you come sit on the porch, James. It occurs to me that
you are a new audience for my stories. Let us proceed to defend
Richmond, and do a quick dash into Illinois, to our common
benefit. Is it a bargain?" It was, and Jimmy listened, and Mrs. Tiffany came out and
listened also and the three lovers of the Heroic Age sat glowing
at one another till from across the village street, long and thin
and drowsy, came the call, "Jim-m-m-ee Mar-r-r-tin!" Later, Jimmy's mother was surprised to discover her heir
leading a Confederate raid, and she was satisfied only when she
was assured that the raid was perfectly proper, because it was
led by General Grant, and because all the raiders had voluntarily
set free their slaves. It was Jimmy Martin who enticed Mr. Gale to go spearing
pickerel, and they two, the big slow-moving man and the boy who
took two skips to his one solid pace, plowed through the willow
thickets along the creek all one Saturday afternoon. At the end of the trip, Jimmy cheerfully announced that he
would probably get a whale of a licking, because he ought to have
been chopping stovewood. Mr. Gale suggested strategic measures;
he sneaked after Jimmy, through a stable door to the Martins'
woodshed, and cut wood for an hour, while Jimmy scrabbled to pile
it. In the confidences of Jimmy and in Mrs. Tiffany's stories of
her Vermont girlhood and pioneer days in Minnesota, Mr. Gale
found those green memories of youth which he had hoped to
discover, on coming North, in comradely talks with veterans of
the Wakamin G. A. R. But now there was no G. A. R. at all in Wakamin. During the past year the local post had been wiped out. Of the
four veterans remaining on Decoration Day a year before, three
had died and one had gone West to live with his son, as is the
Mid-Western way. Of the sturdy old men who had marched fifty
strong to Woodlawn Cemetery a decade before, not one old man was
left to leaven the land. But they did live on in Mrs. Tiffany's gossip, as she begged
Mr. Gale to assure her that there would be a decorating of the
graves, though the comrades were gone. This assurance Mr. Gale
always gave, though upon sedulous inquiry at the barber shop he
discovered that there was very little chance for a celebration of
the Day. The town band had broken up when the barber, who was
also the bandleader, had bought a car. The school principal had
decided that this year it was not worth while to train the girls
to wear red-white-and-blue cheesecloth, and sing "Columbia, the
Gem of the Ocean" from a decked-over hay wagon. Mr. Gale endeavored to approve this passing of Decoration Day.
He told himself that he was glad to hear that all of his old
enemies had gone. But no matter how often he said it, he couldn't
make it stick. He felt that he, too, was a derelict, as he
listened to Mrs. Tiffany's timid hopes for a celebration. To her,
the Day was the climax of the year, the time when all her
comrades, living and dead, drew closer together. She had a dazed
faith that there would be some sort of ceremony. She went on retrimming the blue bonnet which she had always
worn in the parade, at the head of the W. R. C. Not till the day
before the holiday did she learn the truth. That evening she did
not come down to supper. She called in a neighbor's daughter to
serve Mr. Gale. The young woman giggled, and asked idiotic
questions about Society Folks in the South, till Mr. Gale made
his iron-gray eyebrows a line of defense. He tramped out the road
eastward from town, after supper, growling to himself between
periods of vacuous unhappiness: "Feel's if it's me and the boys I fought with, not them I
fought against, they're going to neglect tomorrow. Those Yanks
were lively youngsters. Made me do some tall jumping. Hate to
think of 'em lying there in the cemetery, lonely and waiting,
trusting that we--that the Dam-yanks--will remember them. Look
here, J. Gale, Esq., you sentimental old has-been, what do you
mean, whimpering about them? You know good and well you never did
like Yanks--killed your daddy and brother. But--poor old codgers,
waiting out there--" His walk had brought him to a fenced field. He peered across.
It was set with upright and ghostly stones. He had come to the
cemetery. He stopped, prickly. He heard creepy murmurs in the
dusk. He saw each white stone as the reproachful spirit of an old
soldier robbed of his pension of honor. He turned away with a
measured calmness that was more panicky than a stumbling
retreat. The morning of the empty Decoration Day was radiant as
sunshine upon a beech trunk. But nowhere was the old-time bustle
of schoolgirls in bunting, of mothers preparing lunch baskets, of
shabby and halting old civilians magically transformed into
soldiers. A few families mechanically hung out flags. Mrs.
Tiffany did not. When Mr. Gale came down to breakfast he found
her caressing an ancient silken flag. She thrust it into a
closet, locked the door, hastened out to the kitchen. She was
slow in the serving of breakfast, looked dizzy, often pressed her
hand against her side. Mr. Gale begged her to let him help. She
forbade him sternly. She seemed to have a calm and embittered
control of herself. He hastened out of the house. There was no business to which
he could attend on this holiday. He made shameless overtures for
the company of Jimmy Martin, who was boisterous over the fact
that summer vacation had begun, and his dear, dear teachers gone
away. The Martin family was not going to any of the three or four
picnics planned for the day, and Jimmy and Mr. Gale considered
gravely the possibility of a fishing trip. They sat in canvas
chairs on the tiny lawn, and forgot a certain difference in
age. The door of the Tiffany house slammed. They stopped, listened.
Nervous footsteps were crossing the porch, coming along the
gravel walk. They looked back. Running toward them was Mrs.
Tiffany. She wore no hat. Her hair was like a shell-torn flag,
thin gray over the yellowed skin of her brow. Her hands dabbled
feebly in the air before her glaring eyes. She moaned: "Oh, Mr. Gale, I can't stand it! Don't they know what they're
doing? My boy lies there, my husband, and he's crying for me to
come to him and show I remember him. I tell you I can hear him,
and his voice sounds like a rainy wind. I told him I'd go to
Woodlawn all by myself, I said I'd fill my little basket with
flowers, and crabapple blossoms, but he said he wanted the others
to come too, he wanted a Decoration Day parade that would honor
all the graves. Oh, I heard him--" Mr. Gale had sprung up. He put his arm about her shoulder. He
cried, "There will be a parade, ma'am! We'll remember the boys,
every one of them, every grave. You go in the house, honey, and
you put on your bonnet, and pack a little sack for you and me to
eat after the ceremony, maybe you'll have time to bake a batch of
biscuits, but anyway, in an hour or so, maybe hour and a half,
you'll hear the parade coming, and you be all ready." Mr. Gale's
voice had something of the ponderous integrity of distant cannon.
He smoothed her disordered hair. He patted her, like the soft
pawing of a fond old dog, and led her to the paint-blistered door
of the house. He went back to his canvas chair, scratching his scalp,
shaking his head. Jimmy, who had edged away, returned and sighed,
"Gee, I wisht I could do something." "I bet you would, if you were a little older, James,
but--better run away. This old Rebel has got to stir up his
sleepy brain and conjure up a Federal parade, with a band and at
least twenty flags, out of the sparrows in the street.
Good-by." After five minutes, or it may have been ten, of clawing at his
chin, Mr. Gale looked happy. He hastened down the street. He
entered the drug store, and from the telephone booth he talked to
hotel clerks in three different towns within ten miles of
Wakamin. He hurried to the livery stable which operated the two cars in
town that were for hire. One of the cars was out. The second was
preparing to leave, as he lumbered up to the door. "I want that car," he said to the stableman-chauffeur. "Well, you can't have it." The stableman bent over, to crank
up. "Why not?" "Because I'm going to take a skirt out for a spin, see?" "Look here. I'm Mr. Gale who--" "Aw, I know all about you. Seen you go by. You out-of-town
guys think we have to drop everything else just to accommodate
you--" Mr. Gale puffed across the floor like a steam-roller. He said
gently, "Son, I've been up all night, and I reckon I've had a
lee-tle mite too much liquor. I've taken a fancy to going riding.
Son, I've got the peacefulest heart that a grown-up human ever
had; I'm like a little playing pussy-cat, I am; but I've got a
gun in my back pocket that carries the meanest .44-40 bullet in
the South. Maybe you've heard about us Southern fire-eaters, heh?
Son, I only want that car for maybe two hours. Understand?" He bellowed. He was making vast, vague, loosely swinging
gestures, his perspiring hands very red. He caught the stableman
by the shoulder. The man's Adam's apple worked grotesquely up and
down. He whimpered: "All right. I'll take you." Mr. Gale pacifically climbed into the car. "Joralemon, son,
and fast, son, particular fast," he murmured. In the speeding car he meditated: "Let's see. Must be forty
years since I've toted any kind of a gun--and twenty years since
I've called anybody 'son.' Oh, well." Again, "Let's see. I'll be a Major. No, a Colonel; Colonel
Gale of the Tenth New York. Private Gale, I congratulate you. I
reckon the best you ever got from a darky was 'Cap'n' or 'boss.'
You're rising in the world, my boy. Poor woman! Poor, faithful
woman--'' When they reached the town of Joralemon, Mr. Gale leaned out
from the car and inquired of a corner loafer, "Where's the
Decoration Day parade? The G. A. R.?" "At the exercises in Greenwood Cemetery." "Greenwood, son," he blared, and the stableman made haste. At the entrance to the cemetery Mr. Gale insinuated, "Now wait
till I come back, son. I'm getting over that liquor, and I'm
ugly, son, powerful ugly." "All right," growled the stableman. "Say, do I get
paid--?" "Here's five dollars. When I come back with my friends,
there'll be another five. I'm going to steal a whole Decoration
Day parade." "How?" "I'm going to surround them." "My--Gawd!" whispered the stableman. The Southerner bristled at the sight of the Northern
regimental flag among the trees of the cemetery. But he shrugged
his shoulders and waddled into the crowd. The morning's radiance
brought out in hot primary colors the red and yellow of flowers
in muddy glass vases upon the graves. Light flashed from the
mirrory brown surfaces of polished granite headstones, with
inscriptions cut in painfully white letters. The air was thick
with the scent of dust and maple leaves and packed people. Round
a clergyman in canonicals were the eight veterans now left in
Joralemon; men to whose scrawny faces a dignity was given by
their symbolic garb. From their eyes was purged all the meanness
of daily grinding. The hand of a sparse-bearded Yankee, who wore
an English flag pinned beside his G. A. R. button, was resting on
the shoulder of a Teutonic-faced man with the emblem of the Sigel
Corps. Round the G. A. R. were ringed the Sons of Veterans, the Hose
and Truck Company, the Women's Relief Corps, and the Joralemon
Band; beyond them a great press of townspeople. The road beside
the cemetery was packed with cars and buggies, and the stamp of
horses' feet as they restlessly swished at flies gave a rustic
rhythm to the pause in the clergyman's voice. Here in a quiet town, unconscious of the stir of the world
beyond, was renewed the passion of their faith in the Union. Mr. Gale shoved forward into the front row. Everyone glared at
the pushing stranger. The voice of the gray, sunken-templed
clergyman sharpened with indignation for a second. Mr. Gale tried
to look unconcerned. But he felt hot about the spine. The dust
got into his throat. The people about him were elbowing and
sticky. He was not happy. But he vowed, "By thunder, I'll pull
this off if I have to kidnap the whole crowd." As the clergyman finished his oration, Mr. Gale pushed among
the G. A. R. He began loudly, cheerfully, "Gentlemen--" The clergyman stared down from his box rostrum. "What do you
mean, interrupting this ceremony?" The crowd was squeezing in, like a street mob about a man
found murdered. Their voices united in a swelling whisper. Their
gaping mouths were ugly. Mr. Gale was rigid with the anger that
wipes out all fear of a crowd, and leaves a man facing them as
though they were one contemptible opponent. "Look here," he bawled, "I had proposed to join you in certain
memorial plans. It may interest you to know that I am Colonel
John Gale, and that I led the Tenth New York through most of the
war!" "Ah," purred the clergyman, "you are Colonel--Gale, is
it?" "I am." The clergyman licked his lips. With fictitious
jocularity Mr. Gale said, "I see you do not salute your superior
officer. But I reckon a dominie isn't like us old soldiers. Now,
boys, listen to me. There's a little woman--" The clergyman's voice cut in on this lumbering amiability as a
knife cuts butter: "My dear sir, I don't quite understand the
reason for this farce. I am a 'dominie,' as you are pleased to
call it, but also I am an old soldier, the present commander of
this post, and it may 'interest you to know' that I fought clear
through the war in the Tenth New York! And if my memory is still
good, you were not my commanding officer for any considerable
period!" "No!" bellowed Mr. Gale, "I wa'n't! I'm a Southerner. From
Alabama. And after today I'm not even sure I'm reconstructed! I'm
powerful glad I never was a blue-bellied Yank, when I think of
that poor little woman dying of a broken heart up in
Wakamin!" With banal phrases and sentimental touches, with simple words
and no further effort to be friendly, he told the story of Mrs.
Captain Tiffany, though he did not satisfy the beggar ears of the
crowd with her name. His voice was at times almost hostile. "So," he wound up, "I
want you-all to come to Wakamin and decorate the graves there,
too. You, my dear sir, I don't care a damaged Continental whether
you ever salute me or not. If you boys do come to Wakamin, then
I'll know there's still some men, as there were in the
'60's. But if you eight or nine great big husky young Yanks are
afraid of one poor old lone Johnny Reb, then by God, sir, I win
another scrimmage for the Confederate States of America!" Silence. Big and red, Mr. Gale stood among them like a
sandstone boulder. His eyes were steady and hard as his clenched
fist. But his upper lip was trembling and covered with a triple
row of sweat drops. Slowly, as in the fumbling stupor of a trance, the clergyman
drew off his canonicals and handed them to a boy. He was formal
and thin and rather dry of aspect in his black frock coat. His
voice was that of a tired, polite old gentleman, as he demanded
of Mr. Gale, "Have you a car to take us to Wakamin?" "Room for five." To a man beside him the clergyman said, "Will you have another
car ready for us?" Abruptly his voice snapped: "'Tention. Fall
in. Form twos. B' th' right flank. For'ard. March!" As he spoke he leaped down into the ranks, and the veterans
tramped toward the gate of the cemetery, through the parting
crowd. Their faces were blurred with weariness and dust and age,
but they stared straight ahead, they marched stolidly, as though
they had been ordered to occupy a dangerous position and were too
fagged to be afraid. The two rear-line men struck up with fife and drum. The fifer
was a corpulent banker, but he tootled with the agility of a boy.
The drummer was a wisp of humanity. Though his clay-hued hands
kept up with the capering of "When Johnny Comes Marching Home
Again," his yellowish eyes were opening in an agonized stare, and
his chin trembled. "Halt!" the clergyman ordered. "Boys, seems to me the
commander of this expedition ought to be Colonel Gale. Colonel,
will you please take command of the post?" "W--why, I wouldn't hardly call it regular." "You old Rebel, I wouldn't call any of this regular!" "Yes," said Mr. Gale. "'Tention!" The old drummer, his eyes opening wider and wider, sank
forward from the knees, and held himself up only by trembling
bent arms. Two men in the crowd caught him. "Go on!" he groaned.
His drumsticks clattered on the ground. Uneasily exchanging glances, the other old men waited. Each
face said, "Risky business. Hot day. We might collapse, too." The clergyman slipped the drum belt over his own head, picked
up the sticks. "Play, confound you, Lanse!" he snapped at the
pompous banker-fifer, and together they rolled into a rude
version of "Marching Through Georgia." The squad straightened its lines and marched on without even
an order from Mr. Gale, who, at the head of the procession, was
marveling, "I never did expect to march to that tune!" The two motor cars shot from Joralemon to Wakamin, with
steering wheels wrenching and bucking on the sandy road, and old
men clinging to seat-edge and robe-rack. They stopped before the
Tiffany cottage. Mrs. Tiffany sat on the porch, her blue bonnet lashed to her
faded hair, with a brown veil, a basket of flowers and a shoe-box
of lunch on her knees. As the cars drew up, she rushed out, with
flustered greetings. The old men greeted her elaborately. One,
who had known Captain Tiffany, became the noisy spokesman. But he
had little of which to speak. And the whole affair suddenly
became a vacuous absurdity. Now that Mr. Gale had them here, what
was he going to do with them? The quiet of the village street flowed over them. This was no
parade; it was merely nine old men and an old woman talking in
the dust. There was no music, no crowd of spectators, none of the
incitements of display which turn the ordinary daily sort of men
into one marching thrill. They were old, and tired, and somewhat
hungry, and no one saw them as heroes. A small automobile passed;
the occupants scarce looked at them. The unparading parade looked awkward, tried to keep up brisk
talk, and became dull in the attempt. They were engulfed in the indifferent calm of the day. After
the passing of the one automobile, there was no one to be seen.
The box-elder trees nodded slowly. Far off a rooster crowed,
once. In a vacant lot near by a cud-chewing cow stared at them
dumb and bored. Little sounds of insects in the grass underlaid
the silence with a creeping sleepiness. The village street,
stretching out toward the wheat fields beyond, grew hotter and
more hazy to their old eyes. They all stood about the cars,
plucking at hinges and door-edges, wondering how they could give
up this childish attempt and admit that they were grannies. A
sparrow hopped among them unconcernedly. "Well?" said the clergyman. "Wel-l--" said Mr. Gale. Then Jimmy Martin strolled out in front of his house. He saw them. He stopped short. He made three jubilant skips,
and charged on them. "Are you going to parade?" he shrilled at Mr. Gale. "Afraid not, Jimmy. Reckon we haven't quite got the makings.
The young people don't appear to care. Reckon we'll give up." "No, no, no!" Jimmy wailed. "The Scouts want to come!" He dashed into his house, while the collapsed parade stared
after him with mild elderly wonder. He came back to the gate. He
wore a Boy Scout uniform and a red neckerchief, and he carried a
cheap bugle. He stood at the gate, his eyes a glory, and he blew the one
bugle call he knew--the Reveille. Wavering at first, harsh and
timorous, the notes crept among the slumberous trees, then
swelled, loud, madly imploring, shaking with a boy's worship of
the heroes. Another boy ran out from a gate down the street, looked, came
running, stumbling, panting. He was bare headed, in corduroy
knickers unbuckled at the knees, but in his face was the same
ageless devotion that had made a splendor of the mere boys who
marched out in '64 and '65. He saluted Jimmy. Jimmy spoke, and
the two of them, curiously dignified, very earnest, marched out
before the scatter of old people and stood at attention, their
serious faces toward Woodlawn and the undecked graves. From a box-elder down the street climbed another boy; one
popped out of a crabapple orchard; a dozen others from drowsy
distances. They scurried like suddenly disturbed ants. They could
be heard calling, clattering into houses. They came out again in
Scout uniforms; they raced down the street and fell into
line. They stood with clean backs rigid, eyes forward, waiting to
obey orders. As he looked at them, Mr. Gale knew that some day
Wakamin would again have a soul. Jimmy Martin came marching up to Mr. Gale. His voice was
plaintive and reedy, but it was electric as he reported: "The Boy
Scouts are ready, sir." "'Tention!" shouted Mr. Gale. The old men's backs had been straightening, the rheumy redness
of disappointment had gone from their eyes. They lined out behind
the boys. Even the Wakamin stableman seemed to feel inspiration.
He sprang from his car, helped Mrs. Tiffany in, and wheeled the
car to join the procession. From nowhere, from everywhere, a
crowd had come, and stood on the sidewalk, rustling with faint
cheering. Two women hastened to add flowers to those in Mrs.
Tiffany's basket. The benumbed town had awakened to energy and
eagerness and hope. To the clergyman Mr. Gale suggested, "Do you suppose that just
for once this Yankee fife-and-drum corps could play 'Dixie'?"
Instantly the clergyman-drummer and the banker-fifer flashed into
"Way Down South in the Land of Cotton." The color-bearer raised
the flag. Mr. Gale roared, "Forward! M--" There was a high wail from Mrs. Tiffany: "Wait! Land o'
goodness! What's Decoration Day without one single sword, and you
menfolks never thinking--" She ran into her house. She came out bearing in her two hands,
as though it were an altar vessel, the saber of Captain
Tiffany. "Mr. Gale, will you carry a Northerner's sword?" she
asked. "No, ma'am, I won't!" She gasped. He buckled on the sword belt, and cried, "This isn't a
Northerner's sword any more, nor a Southerner's, ma'am. It's an
American's! Forward! March!"</story>