<story title="THE CHUCKAJEE PLATE" date="1908">
THERE was once a man, wiser, saner, and more erudite than myself (said Edgar Wallace, modestly), who remarked that the morality of an action depended upon the motive of the actor. I put forward this dogma to all and sundry who take exception to the lapses of Private Clark and to the indecorous, reprehensible, and altogether undisguised admiration and approval of his friend, Private Smith. The justification of both lies in the morality of intention. The good St. Augustine asks: Why do you blush to confess what you did not at all blush to commit? Smithy blushes neither at the confession nor at the commission. The exact measure of his sin raises, therefore, a nice ethical point.

Speaking as a man of the world, and one, moreover, who has for many years been supporting a number of eminent bookmakers, it seems to me that the affair of the Chucajee Plate was as flagrant a “ramp” as ever I have read about or seen, and I know what a “ramp” is, for I was at Hurst Park when—but no matter.

“It was when we were up in the Punjab,” said Smithy, in telling the story, “We’d been havin’ a nice, easy time, with nothin’ to do but count the days when we’d be goin’ home. One day there came an order to move—an’ we moved, d——quick. We weren’t bein’ attacked by hillsmen, an’ there wasn’t any wars, nor any riots. But at a camp twenty miles away, where the Wigshires lay, there was a colour-sergeant named Button who was late for parade. To be exact, he didn’t turn up at the daybreak parade at all, so the sergeant-major sent for him, an’ found him just before he died. Before night two other fellers was buried, an’ as cholera moves faster than sound—when so inclined—our old man shifted us. We marched to a place called Chucajee, a little village on the plains. We got there in two days, an’ sat down waitin’ for the cholera to pass.

“As camps go, it wasn’t a bad place; plenty of sweet water an’ enough greenery to keep you from thinkin’ you was the Children of Israel wanderin’ in the wilderness.

“The officers got together an’ arranged a programme of amusements to keep the young recruits from thinkin’ about death, an’ lots of chaps you’d never have suspected found out they could sing.

“‘Cholera-dodgin’s bad enough,’ sez Nobby, very despairin’, ‘but the concert “A” Company is goin’ to give nex’ Saturday, in a manner o’ speakin’, makes you realise there’s worse things than cholera.’

“We had gymkhanas an’ cricket matches, an’ bun fights an’ sports till every bloomin’ day was like a holiday on Blackheath.

“Then Tubby Mainland gave out that he was the catch-as-you-like-but-no-biting champion of Chucajee, an’ issued a challenge to Hackenschmidt, Madrali, or Pybosco to wrestle ’em for the championship of the world an’ ten rupees aside.

“In the unavoidable absence of Hackenschmidt, Nobby Clark took him on, an’ shook the rupees out of him in three minutes. Tubby said it was only a lark, but Nobby said that there’s no lark when money’s mentioned, an’ if he didn’t weigh out the ten he’d put a Bobby Bums rib hook on him. Nobby took four rupees, three annas, an’ a pair of old trousis, an’ settled with him for that.

“At that time me an’ Nobby an’ a lot of other celebrated people in ‘B’ Company was goin’ through our M.I.* course, so we had more to occupy our time than the other chaps. My horse was called ‘63’ in the books, but me an’ Nobby named him ‘Alfred’ after a cousin of Nobby’s, who had the same kind of long, solemn nose.

* Mounted Infantry.

“Nobby’s horse was the pick of the squadron. I think he’d been in a circus, because he used to sit up on ’is hind legs an’ beg like a bloomin’ dog. Nobby called him a new name every day, except one day when this here horse bit him playfully in the leg, an’ then Nobby found a new name for him every minute. But the name that Nobby mostly stuck to was ‘Pie Dog,’ an’ the way that horse understood Nobby was simply wonderful.

“Used to foller Nobby about like a child—an’ would have caught him too, only Nobby was a bit nippy on his feet.

“I remember one morning, after Nobby had hit ‘Pie Dog’ on the nose with a broom handle to show him who was master, that affectionate horse followed Nobby for half a mile; in fact, from the stables to the nearest fence, wot Nobby climbed up. There wasn’t any stables in Chucajee, an’ Nobby used to tie up ‘Pie Dog’ to the biggest tree; he said you never know when a tree’s likely to be struck by lightnin’, an’ he’d like ‘Pie Dog’ to have the first chance.

“It was when the sports was gettin’ a bit tame that Nobby had his great idea, an’ went an’ saw the sergeant-major. The S.M. took him up to the Colonel, an’ after the officers had had a bit of a pow-wow it was settled.

“There was goin’ to be a race—a real horse race, with M.I. horses and jockeys, proper an’ regular.

“Any feller could enter his horse for a rupee, an’ the officers made up the stake to fifty rupees.

“‘It’s the “Chucajee Plate,”’ sez Nobby when he explained it, ‘for horses that ought never to have been born, with fifty rupees added. I’m enterin’ “Fiery Dragon”——’

“‘Who’s she?’ I sez.

“‘“Fiery Dragon’s” the Sunday name for “Pie Dog,”’ sez Nobby, calmly; ‘he gets a breedin’ allowance, because he ought to have been born a pig, an’ I expect to win in me famous light blue, purple sleeves, primrose an’ green cap.’

“It was one of the most successful ideas Nobby has ever had, because it wasn’t goin’ to be run for a week, an’ what with the excitement of trainin’ an’ the excite­ment of handicappin', the sports an’ concerts went away right into the background.

“Nobby wanted to do the handicappin’, because the idea of the race was his, but the sergeant-major only looked very hard at him an’ said: He thought not.

“When the handicap came out there wasn't much difference in the weights, although Nobby said ‘Pie Dog,’ bein’ the worst horse in the lines, oughtn’t to have more than about six ounces to carry.

“As I was sayin’, the excitement was extr’ordinary. There was forty horses in the squadron, an’ there was forty-one entries, owing to Billy Mason enterin’ his horse ‘Julep’ under two names to see wot got the least weight.

“The adjutant struck out a lot of the horses. He struck out Teddy Doyle’s because he was in hospital, an’ Tubby’s, because Tubby tried to pass off a bad rupee for his entrance. What with duty horses an’ horses too fat to run, we got the entry down to twelve.

“We ran a little printin’ press in those days, for printin’ battalion orders an’ such like, an’ the printer got out a full list of probable starters. I’ve still got the list:—


“‘Nobby’ Clark’s ‘Noble Roman.’
“‘Spud’ Murphy’s ‘Beautiful Dewdrop.’
“‘Tiny’ White’s ‘Has Been.’
“Private Smith’s ‘Alfred.’
“Gus Ward’s ‘Sneezing Fairy.’
“‘Ginger’ Brown’s ‘Chilblain.’
“‘Dusty’ Miller’s ‘Gadjet.’
“Yatesey’s ‘Walworth Road.’
“‘Jiggy’ Jones’s ‘Promtheus.’
“Alf. Williams’s ‘Wormwood Scrubbs.’
“‘Cadger’ Cox’s ‘Mad Horse.’
“Sid Taylor’s ‘Spavins.’


“I said there was a week to train in, an’ we started next mornin’. I didn’t take any trouble with ‘Alfred,’ because I knew exac’ly where he’d be in the race; but Nobby was very much took up with the chance of ‘Pie Dog.’

“‘That horse,’ sez Nobby, ‘has got points about him; points you could hang your hat on. I’m goin’ to train him.’

“‘What you’ve got to do when you first start trainin’ a horse,’ sez Nobby, ‘is to feed him properly—Smithy, run down to the canteen tent an’ get a bob’s worth of Quaker Oats.’

“Nobody could have looked after a racehorse better than Nobby did ‘Pie Dog.’ Nothing was too good for him. Oatmeal for breakfast and a pint of milk at dinner­time, an’ any little scraps of meat that was lyin’ about. I’ve often seen Nobby walkin’ down to the horse lines with a mutton bone wrapped up in the ‘Times of India.’ Not that ‘Pie Dog’ was a delicate feeder: anything that happened to come his way was good enough for him. After finishin’ his Government ration he used to start eatin’ the manger; he once ate a pair of Nobby’s braces when Nobby wasn’t lookin’.

“‘Pie Dog’s’ as fresh an’ as frisky as a two-year-old,’ sez Nobby, the second day of the trainin’. ‘We’ll take him out to-morrer mornin’ an’ give him a spin.’

“So next mornin’ we took him out. Spud Murphy met us on the way. He was ridin’ ‘Beautiful Dewdrop,’ an’ he pulled up when he saw us.

“‘Where are you goin’?’ he sez.

“‘We’re goin’ to have a secret trial,’ sez Nobby. “‘I’ll come along an’ see it,’ sez Spud. ‘Where’s the horse?’

“‘I’m sittin’ on it,’ sez Nobby, shortly, an’ Spud begged his pardon. ‘We don’t want no race-course touts hangin’ round us,’ sez Nobby, ‘so the best thing you can do is to hop it whilst you’re safe.’

“Spud was very indignant.

“‘I’m a Nownor!’ he sez, ‘an’ a trainer,’ he sez, ‘an’ I’m entitled to see all the trials.’

“We couldn’t shake him off, so we pretended he wasn’t there.

“Bye an’ bye:

“‘This seems a nice bit of country,’ sez Nobby. ‘Smithy, you be the starter.’

“So I got an handkerchief an’ tied it on to a stick.

“‘Are you ready?” I sez, wavin’ the flag in front of ‘Pie Dog’s’ nose. ‘One, two——’

“By this time ‘Pie Dog’ was tryin’ to stand on his head.

“Stop wavin’ that flag!’ shouts Nobby, with his arms round ‘Pie Dog’s’ neck. ‘What are you tryin’ to do?’

“‘I’m tryin’ to start you,’ I sez.

“‘You’ve started us all right!’ sez Nobby. ‘Whoa! you one-eyed basket—stop jumpin’, you walkin’ bit of cats’ meat!’

“There was two or three chaps present, an’ they managed to get ‘Pie Dog’ quiet, by holdin’ on to him.

“‘Now,’ sez Nobby, when he was peaceful again, ‘don’t wave the flag—the flag’s been done away with—say “Go”—now.’

“So I sez ‘Go!’ very loud.

“Nobby gave ‘Pie Dog’ a whack, but ‘Pie Dog’ looked round, admirin’ the scenerv.

“‘Go!’ I sez again, an’ Nobby fetched him a clip on the ribs, but ‘Pie Dog’ just sniffed an’ tried to scratch his ear with his hind leg like a real human dog.

“‘What you want,’ sez Spud Murphy, ‘is a ’bus bell an’ a policeman to say “Higherup”!’

“‘What I don't want,’ sez Nobby, very red in the face, ‘is any advice from a low down private soldier. You be careful, young feller, or I’ll have you warned off.’

“Just about then ‘Pie Dog’ warned off Nobby. He sort of doubled hisself up an’ jumped twenty feet in the air, an’ come down again on his hind legs.

“Nobby came down later.

“That night, when we was in the canteen tent, Nobby told me he had another trial in the afternoon when nobody was about.

“‘Are you much hurt?’ sez Spud, very anxious, but Nobby took no notice.

“‘I always said “Pie Dog” was fast,’ he sez, very enthusiastic, ‘an’ the way he galloped was wonderful. He simply flew, that “Pie Dog” did! I’ve never seen anythin’ like it.’

“‘I don’t suppose you have,’ sez Spud, ‘if the truth was told.’

“Nobby’s second secret trial got all over camp, an’ when Yatesey scratched ‘Walworth Road’ an’ started makin’ a book, ‘Pie Dog’ was favourite. There wasn’t another horse backed. Everybody backed ‘Pie Dog’ or ‘Noble Roman,’ to give him his fancy name.

“‘Have you backed him?’ I sez to Nobby.

“‘No,’ sez Nobby, ’I’m goin’ halves with Yatesey.’

“That set me thinkin’.

“‘If pore old “Pie Dog” don’t happen to win,’ sez Nobby, in a thoughtful voice, ‘if he can’t run as fast as I think he can; if “Sneezing Fairy,” or “Wormwood Scrubbs,” or any of them thoroughbreds win, Yatesey will have a sharin’ out that’ll make a co-op. dividend look sick.’

“‘You’re not goin’ to lose on purpose,’ I sez, sternly, ‘don’t tell me, Nobby Clark, that you’re goin’ to chuck the race away!’

“Nobby looked around to see if anybody was listenin’.

“‘Smithy!’ he sez, very solemn, ‘I give you me word that I’m not goin’ to try to lose—“Pie Dog” will do all the tryin’ necessary, and,’ he sez, ‘as a friend, let me advise you to have a few rupees on “Pie Dog,” because even if you don’t win, you can be pretty sure that the money will do somebody a bit of good.’

“I didn’t back ‘Pie Dog.’ But I was one of the few that didn’t—why, even the officers had a bit on!

“If you think it’s strange that officers should act the goat, you don’t know what officers will do when it comes to a question of keepin’ a cholera-scared battalion amused.

“The night before the race Nobby nearly got into clink owin’ to his havin’ forgotten to bring in a bucket of sand for cleanin’ purposes, but the colour-sergeant overlooked it. Me an’ Nobby an’ a tailor chap named Sinks was sittin’ in a tent. We was makin’ up Nobby’s racin' colours out of an old signallin’ flag an’ a shirt.

“‘Smithy,’ sez Nobby, all of a sudden, ‘do you know that the whole bloomin’ regiment’s backed my horse?’

"‘Nearly everyone,’ I sez.

"‘Everyone,’ sez Nobby, ‘including the other chaps who are ridin’ in the race: we’ve got over two hundred rupees comin’ to us if we lose.’

“‘What about if you win?’ I sez.

“‘Don’t trouble your fat head about that,’ he sez, politely.

“The day of the race was a hot ’un, an’ the sports started with a tug of war between ‘H’ an’ ‘G’ companies. Then there was a sack race, an’ an egg an’ spoon race. Then came the Chucajee Plate.

“Eight runners weighed out, an’ the Adjutant was clerk of the scales—borrered from the meat store.

“The colours the chaps wore was fine. Spud’s was ‘white with black spots,’ an’ although the ink never washed out of the shirt afterwards he was very proud of hisself. Ginger Brown was yaller, with black sleeves, made out of an old khaki jacket, an’ Alf. Williams was yaller, with broad arrers.

“The course had been marked out over the plain with little flags, an’ Lieutenant Forster, of ‘G,’ was the starter.

“Me an’ Nobby rode down together.

“‘I like your colours, Smithy,’ he sez, admiringly, an I must confess I was rather took with ’em miself. They was made out of an old chair cover that I’d got from the steward of the officers’ mess, an’ was Faded Blue, with Faded Red flowers, with Grease Stains.

“‘Who’s goin’ to win?’ I sez, but Nobby shook his head.

“‘I don’t know,’ he sez, ‘but I can tell you who ain’t.’ We was the last to ride down to the post, an’ all the boys cheered us.

“‘Good ole “Pie Dog!”’ ‘Bravo, Nobby!’ An’ you could hear Yatesey’s voice shoutin’ ‘Here! Two to one “Pie Dog!”’

“The other horses was waitin’ for us at the post.

“‘Come along, you two,’ sez the starter, ‘get in line. Clark, you go in the middle, where we can see you.’ An’ he put Nobby between Spud Murphy an’ Tiny White.

“There was a bit of delay, owin’ to ‘Pie Dog ’ tryin’ to eat ‘Sneezin’ Fairy’s’ tail.

“‘Now then, you fellers,’ sez the starter.

“‘It’s Clark, sir,’ sez Gus Ward, indignant; ‘his horse is bitin’ my horse’s brush.’

“After a while we got into line.

“‘Now, then! ’ shouts the starter, ‘Go!’

“And off we went.

“For some mysterious reason ‘Pie Dog’ started with the rest of ’em.

“‘Here, Spud!’ sez Nobby, turnin’ in his saddle, very fiercely, ‘What cher mean by stickin’ a pin in my horse?’

“‘I’ve backed him,’ sez Spud, very gently.

“We kept together for the first furlong, an’ then Nobby started to pull ‘Pie Dog’ back.

“‘What are you doin’?’ sez Spud, indignant.

“‘I’m judgin’ the pace,’ sez Nobby.

“‘So am I,’ sez Spud, an’ he gave ‘Pie Dog’ a whack over the head that sent him nearly six lengths ahead.

“‘Don’t do it!’ sez Nobby, reinin’ in, but as soon as he’d got back to the others, Tiny White leant over an’ gave ‘Pie Dog’ a belt on the other side.

“Then suddenly.

“‘Stop him!’ yells Spud, ‘he’s tryin’ to run out of the course!’

“So Gus Ward headed him off, an’ with Gus whackin’ ‘Pie Dog’ on one side, an’ Spud stickin’ a pin that he’d got fastened to a stick in the other side, an’ Alf Williams an’ Ginger Brown layin’ into ‘Pie Dog’ with long sticks from behind, Nobby passed the winnin’ post first, to the cheers of the excited fellers that backed him.

“I felt very sorry for Nobby and Yatesey. ‘Pie Dog’ was so warmed up to his work that Nobby couldn’t pull him up till he had gone another half mile, an’ round a sand hill.

“When Nobby came back the cheers was deafenin’. Everybody was dancin’ with joy, except old Yatesey, who looked like a chap who’d been arrested at a funeral. Nobby got off ‘Pie Dog’ very slowly and careful.

“‘Well, Clark,’ sez the Adjutant, ‘you’ve won.’

“‘Yes, sir,’ sez Nobby, followin’ the officer to the scales.

“There was a big crowd round the tent door to see Nobby weigh in.

“‘Let me see,’ sez the Adjutant, “your weight is ten stone, isn’t it?”

“‘Yes, sir,’ sez Nobby.

“He sat on the scales an’ the Adjutant looked at the dial.

“‘Hullo!’ he sez, “what the devil’s happened?’

“Nobby’s weight was 13 stone 8 pounds!

“‘Why, you’re over three stone overweight,’ sez the Adjutant.

“‘Yes, sir!’ sez Nobby, calmly, ‘ridin’ always makes me put on flesh.’

“The Adjutant shook his head.

“‘I don’t know what monkey tricks you’ve been up to,’ he sez, ‘but you’ve lost the prize.’

“‘Don’t say that, sir,’ sez Nobby, with tears in his eyes.

“‘But I do say it,’ sez the Adjutant, an’ he went to the door of the tent an’ shouted, ‘Clark’s horse is disqualified for carryin’ overweight—the prize goes to Private Murphy’s “Beautiful Dewdrop”!’

“When Nobby came out of the tent you could have heard a pin drop. The fellers looked at him with their mouths open, too upset to speak.

“We got back to our tent. There was nobody there, an’ he stooped down an’ unfastened two strings that was tied round his trousers’ legs.

“An’ then about half a hundredweight of sand came pourin’ out into two little heaps.

“‘There’s a lot of sand behind that sand hill,’ he sez, ‘an’ I remembered the Colour-sergeant wanted some,’ he sez.”</story>