<story title="NOBBY’S LOVE STORY" date="1908">
SOME there are who collect china and faded prints and grow ridiculously enthusiastic over aged soup tureens and improper pictures. Some collect postage stamps—an ignoble pursuit. One man I know has an unrivalled collection of writs and judgment summonses in one room, and a rainbow variety of bookmakers’ tickets in another. He calls one room Cause and the other Effect. From the material standpoint my own collection of curios is insignificant: a war drum from Bolengi, spears from the Upper Congo, an execution knife from the N’Gombi country, a Spanish sword or two, a dozen Kaffir sticks, and an ornamental dressing-gown jellab from Fez; these comprise what Smithy would call my “parcel.”

But, in the secret places of my heart, I have a collection which I am jealous of sharing, a collection of army memories, of marches, of canteen conversations, of sun-scorched battlefields, where bullets pattered like hail, and good men went out into the dark Beyond, knowing little of what had struck them, and caring less. In this hidden store-place there are pictures more precious than Titian ever drew or Rubens painted; gorgeous colourings than Paul Veronese lifted from palette to canvas for the joy of the eye. Rosy flushes of sunlight on virgin snows, evening skies of primrose and claret red, plains of purple darkness cut across by twisting silver ribbons of water.

Smithy set the train of thought running by his reference to South Africa, and more especially to Johannesburg. I had met the regiment in the golden city, but a war correspondent, harassed by a thousand and one Press regulations, and with the responsibility of “covering” the whole of the Transvaal, had little time to interest himself in the domestic problems of the 1st Anchesters. Least of all did I know the circumstances attending Nobby Clark’s love affair. That a man on active service should have either sufficient leisure or opportunity for love-making is, on the face of it, extra­ordinary enough; but the South African War was a peculiar one.

“You’d be marchin’ in the wilderness one day, in a manner of speakin’,” said Smithy, “with Boers snipin’ at you from every randlje, an’ cowguns comin’ into action every half-hour. The next day you’d be in Johannesburg takin’ afternoon tea at a cafe an’ wonderin’ whether you was dreamin’ or not.”

“The day after we fought De Wet outside Bloem­fontein me an’ Nobby went to the theatre an’ saw ‘Sweet Lavender.’ But being stationed at Johannesburg was the queerest, because there was fightin’ goin’ on all round the town up to the very last, an’ it was always a toss up when you woke up in the mornin’ whether you was goin’ to the races or sudden death.

“Two companies of ours was up at the Fort; an’ ‘B’ was one of ’em, so we were practically in the heart of the town, an’ anythin’ that was goin’ in the way of amusement used to come our way.

“There wasn’t much at first, because the theatrical companies couldn’t get passes to come up, an’ local talent wasn’t the earth, but there was quite enough English people in the town to make things lively. We was one of the first regiments to reach the city. The streets were practically deserted, all the shops were barricaded, an’ most of the houses empty.

“‘A,’ ‘B,’ ‘D,’ an’ ‘H’ companies were told off for police duty. So many chaps were quartered in each district, an’ our section was sent to a place called Parktown, which is on the outskirts of the city.

“The adjutant paraded us.

“‘You’ve got your orders,’ he sez. ‘You are to stop lootin’ an’ any kind of violence, an’ you mustn’t hesitate to shoot any man dead, Briton or Boer, who breaks the law.’ There was a sort of country lane, with a dozen or so houses at intervals, an’ that’s where me an’ Nobby was sent. It was a quiet sort of a job, for the houses was empty as far as we could see, an’ after we’d walked up an’ down three or four times, me an’ Nobby sat down underneath a tree to yarn.

“‘I’ve often wanted to be a policeman,’ sez Nobby; ‘it’s a nice, lazy kind of life. What a pity,’ he sez, regretful, ‘that Spud Murphy or some bad character don’t come along and give us a chance of pinchin’ him.’

“He was silent for a bit, then he sez:

“‘Did I ever tell you about my cousin wot’s in the Manchester Police?’

“I’d heard about most of Nobby’s relations, but not about any of ’em who was in the police. In fact, most of his family seemed to be quite the contrary.

“‘Well,’ sez Nobby, settin’ hisself down comfortable, “my cousin was——’

“‘Soldier.’

“It was such a nice, quiet, soft voice that I don’t think Nobby heard.

“‘... he was what I’d call a...’

“‘Soldier.’

“I looked up.

“We were sittin’ under an hedge, an’ behind that was the garden of one of these deserted houses.

“‘Who’s that?’ I sez, an’ jumped up.

“I saw the greenery of the bushes move as if they was bein’ pulled aside, an’ then I saw a girl’s face.

“I don’t go out of my way very often to gas about pretty girls, but this one was beautiful. She was pale, an’ had big, sorrerful eyes like you sees in pictures—especially the pictures in the churches of Malta. That’s what mostly struck me—her eyes, grey an’ big an’ solemn.

“‘I’m afraid! Oh, I’m afraid’! she sez, an’ there was no doubt about it—she spoke ther truth.

“‘What’s the matter, miss?’ sez Nobby. He was starin’ at her as if she was a ghost.

“The girl looked over her shoulder an’ shuddered.

“‘My mother is ill in the house,’ she said, falterin’ like, ‘an’ there’s a man—he’s—he’s the doctor,’ an’ she shuddered again.

“Then we heard a voice callin’, a nice, smooth, fat voice: ‘Miss Vanhys—where are you?’

“Nobby was always a chap for an emergency.

“‘Look here, miss,’ he sez, quick, ‘don’t you be afraid of any bloom—I mean blessed feller; we shall be here, off an’ on, for a week, an’ when we ain’t here a pal of mine—well, not exactly a pal, but a chap named Spud Murphy’ll be hereabouts. Have you got a whistle?’

“She nodded.

“‘Well, you blow it if you want military assistance. See?’

“‘Wherever have you got to, Miss Vanhys,’ sez the voice on the other side of the hedge, an’ the girl disappeared.

“We stood listenin’.

“‘Why do you run away from me, eh, child?’ it sez. ‘I was distracted——’ an’ then we couldn’t hear any more. That night, when Tubby Wilkinson an’ Spud Murphy came to relieve us, Nobby took Spud aside an’ told him.

“‘All right,’ sez Spud.

“‘I know,’ sez Nobby, kindly, ‘that you ain’t to be trusted with money, an’ all that, an’ you’re a flat-footed rooster generally, but you’ll keep your eye on that house.’

“‘I might,’ sez Spud, careless.

“‘You will, dear comrade,’ sez Nobby. ‘If you don’t I’ll come along in the mornin’ an’ beat your thick head orf.’

“‘Able’s a good word,’ sez Spud, quite calm.

“Next mornin’ he said nothin’ had happened. We prowled about for half a day tryin’ to get a glimpse of the girl, but it was no go.

“We’d found out something about her from an old chap who was left in charge of one of the houses higher up. Her mother was an Englishwoman, who had married a Hollander gentleman. He’d lorst most of his money in a gold mine—well, it wasn’t exactly a gold mine, but he thought it was. Then he went an’ died. We was talkin’ about it, or, at least, I was. Nobby seemed to get silent all of a sudden.

“I was tellin’ him what a bad sign it was when a feller with his nacheral gift of conversation dried up, when I heard a fairt sound; Nobby heard it too.

“‘It’s the whistle,’ he sez, between his teeth, an’ was over the edge in one jump. I followed him.

“There was a broad lawn an’ flower beds an’ a narrer path that led to the house.

“We raced up to the door. It was shut. As we were tryin’ it the whistle went again, an’ Nobby put his shoulder to the door an’ I put mine.

“‘Heave!’ sez Nobby, an’ in went the door with a crash. Upstairs we flew. We could hear her cryin’ out.

“‘It’s the room at the end of the passage!’ shouts Nobby, an’ we made for it. As we reached it, it was flung open an’ a man came out.

“He was a tall chap, with a thick, black moustache an’ heavy eyebrows.

“‘What d’ye want?’ he snarls, an’ the girl darted under his arm an’ came flyin’ out of the room.

“‘Save me!’ she gasps, an’ fell all of a heap at Nobby’s feet.

“The man made a leap, but Nobby’s fist caught him under the jaw an’ he went down like a log. It took us some time to pacify her. She was all broken up with terror....

“It wasn’t a nice tale, an’ him a doctor an’ all, even though he was only a Polish chap who got his American degree for tuppence-ha’penny. He was the only doctor they could get at the time who’d come out an’ stay with the mother....

“We had to guess half the story, an’ it didn’t want much guessin’....

“The curious thing was she sort of clung to Nobby as though she’d known him for years, an’ he was as gentle an’ sweet with her as if she was a little child, pattin’ her hand an’ talkin’ softly. I can see her now, she was only a little thing, with her white face against his soiled old khaki jacket, an’ his big, raw hands smoothin’ her hair.

“The doctor feller had got up, but he didn’t try to escape. In his agitation he sort of dropped into broken English.

“‘This voomans she’s a spy,’ he sez, ‘her brother he fights wit’ Delarey’s commando.’

“I didn’t say anything.

“‘She von Boer—yes,’ he sez, ‘a dam Boer, vat you tink?’

“‘It don’t matter to me,’ I sez, steady, ‘if she was the wors’ kind of spy, an’ if her brother was De Wet—you’ve got to come outside.’

“I pointed the way, an’ he walked ahead.

As I turned to go down the stairs, I looked back for a second. Nobby had one of the girl’s little hands in his an’ was kissin’ it as if it had been the hand of a queen.

“The relief piquet came at six o’clock, an’ I reported:

“This man attempted to commit a crime at the house with the sunblinds. I arrested him an’ he tried to escape, so I shot him.’

“You see I was the oldest soldier, an’ in a manner of speakin’ responsible, so I didn’t say anything about the duel with rifles him an’ Nobby had fought—me standin’ by to see fair play, an’ the girl cryin’ at the bedside of her dead mother.

* * * * *

“The next day when we went on duty there was a little Dutch boy waitin’ with a note for Nobby.

Dearest friend,—I have left to join my brother, now that my dear mother has gone, there is no one in the world to care for me. Some day I shall meet you again. God bless you.

“Nobby was cut up in his silent way. He said nothin,’ starin’ at the house, an’ hardly spoke the whole of the day. He cut a little twig off the bush where he had seen her first, an’ put it inside his coat.

“Two days afterwards we was relieved by the Derby’s an’ went down the line to Krugersdorf. There wasn’t much time for sentimental worry because old man Delarey was bein’ as lively as a flea, an’ if you ask me my opinion, I’d say that De Wet was a cabhorse compared with Delarey, for the old man had a knack of hittin’ at two places at once without seemin’ly bein’ at either.

“We took a convoy down towards Klerksdorp, an’ got cut up, lost half of ‘H’ Company an’ more than we could spare of ‘ B.’ Then we joined Methuen an’ had two months’ fightin’ on end. All the time we—me and Nobby—was trying to get news of the girl. When we got prisoners we used to ask ’em if she had come to their commando, but they all said, ‘No.’ Delarey didn’t allow women with him like the other generals, an’ if they came he sent ’em back. Which proves that the old man was a better soldier than most of ’em.

“Then we struck a bad streak, fightin’ an’ snipin’ from mornin’ till night, and from night till mornin’.

“There was a little commando under a chap called Joubert that hung on to us, an’ punished us. We could never get at him. He caught the Wigshire Yeomanry an’ wiped ’em out, he came down on to the railway an’ smashed up the Taunboro’ Militia, an’ we spent all our time nippin’ round tryin’ to catch him.

“We’d nearly given it up when he gave himself away. I suppose he’d been a bit too successful and got careless. We found him on a kopje, an’ he had plenty of time to get away, but he must have gone a bit daft, for he sat down tight an’ waited for us.

“We did nothin’ for half a day, but our heliographs was winkin,’ an’ the telegraph wires a-hummin,’ an’ down came Morant’s Column, guns, horses, an’ men by special train an’ forced march, an’ before Mr. Joubert knew what was happenin’, we was round him. Then the fun began.

“The guns opened at 3,000 yards an’ under cover of a horse battery the Anchesters went up the kopje at a run. They fought game, but we was sick of marchin,’ an’ in ten minutes it was white-flag-an’-hands-up. It was dusk when we started in to collect the dead an’ wounded. Nobby an’ me went round with a lantern. ‘Here’s one,’ sez Nobby, an’ we pulled out an old Boer with a long white beard, who was shot through the mouth. There we found a boy, quite a young chap, lyin’ in his face.

“‘Poor kid,’ sez Nobby, an’ felt his hand. It was warm. Nobby turned him over gently.

“‘He ain’t dead,’ he sez, ‘show a light, Smithy.’

“I showed the light.... then I took it away for decency sake, for Nobby was lyin’ flat on the ground sobbin’ like a child....

“We got her down to the field hospital—she looked so tiny in her boy’s clothes—an’ the doctor made an inspection.

“‘She’ll live,’ he sez, cheerful, an’ she opened her eyes an’ seein’ Nobby smiled.

“He had his arms round her all the time, holdin’ her so that the doctor could make his examination, an’ she turned her face an’ laid her cheek against his for a minute....

“Her brother got her away to the coast. It appears she’d joined the commando on the day before we surrounded Joubert.

“After the doctor had said she would live me an’ Nobby went back to our work. Nobby was all shook up, but he stuck to his job.

“Toward midnight, when a light rain was fallin,’ we heard a groan, an’ found Spud Murphy between two rocks with a bullet through his leg.

“We put down our lanterns an’ got him out. When we’d laid him on the stretcher he sez to Nobby in a wonderin’ way:

“‘Nobby, you blighter, how did you manage to get me out without hurtin’ me?’

“Nobby shook his head.

“‘It takes a lot to hurt a chump like you,’ he sez, gruffly.

“‘It ain’t that,’ sez Spud, ‘someone’s been teachin’ you to be gentle,” he sez.

“And that’s the truth.

“Someday or other she an’ Nobby will meet again, please God.”</story>