<story title="THATCHER’S BROTHER" date="1908">
SUPERIOR young non-commissioned officers, possessing first-class certificates, are wont to take me to task from time to time for misrepresenting the Army.

Now by Allah and The Prophet, and by Ali, his unfortunate but most worthy son, I swear I do not heed the strictures of any N.C.O., for I secretly dislike young N.C.O.’s, and am a private at heart.

I regard the private soldier as the backbone of the British Army, the commissioned soldier as the brains, and, to pursue the anatomical simile, I look upon the superior young non-commissioned officer as the nerves of the junior service.

In my life I have seen truly great soldiers of non­commissioned rank, who could never secure the coveted “first,” fine corporals and soldierlike sergeants, born leaders of men, to whom this education test is an insuperable barrier.

In my soldiering days, I took my “first” without batting a lid. Had I borne an exemplary military character, instead of having behind me the record of two terms of imprisonment for military offences, I might well have been made corporal, sergeant, or the like, although I was no more fitted to command men than the proverbial tom-cat. But a “first” was dead easy for me, because I was one of those lazy beggars who would sooner read than work, and naturally I had a pull over the men who loved soldiering for soldiering’s sake, and had no time to fool round after the sensational details of Wat Tyler’s rebellion.

The story of Thatcher proves nothing. It was an extraordinary incident. Thatcher may, or may not, have had a “first”—he probably had. Smithy has lately supplied me with particulars regarding the affair at Pretoria.

You may not have heard it. I, previously, knew little more of the affair than was half revealed in a two-line paragraph in the “Times” newspaper. Later I saw a more detailed account in the “Johannesburg Star,” but Smithy has filled in the gaps of that story, which is now fully set forth for the first time.

“War,” said Smithy, philosophically, “is wilful murder on a large scale. You can look at it any way you like, an’ it works out the same. It’s just as though it came out in orders like this.


Battalion Orders

Nov. 1, 19——.

1. Owin’ to a slight disagreement between us an’ Blanmongia, the followin’ structural alterations to the Ten Commandments will be carried out:

For ‘Thou shalt not kill’ the following words will be substituted:

‘Soldiers in action are reminded that the most vital spot in the enemy’s body is his stomach; soldiers firin’ high will be tried by Court Martial on a charge of wasting ammunition.’

By Order.


“It stands to reason that war upsets a feller. All his life he’s been brought up with the idea that beyond hittin’ his young brother, or jumpin’ on his wife, there’s very little violent exercise that the law allows. He’s taught that murder is a horrid thing, only to be read about in the Sunday papers, an’ that nobody uses firearms except American policemen an’ Instructors of Musketry.

“In the Army they give him a rifle, but if they find him in possession of ammunition they run him into the ‘clink.’ They teach him to shoot the wild bull’s-eye, an’ the fierce magpie, but more often than not he hits a wanderin’ outer. It’s when he don’t hit nothin’ that they get upset: it’s when you can hear his bullet ‘whow-w-w-in’ in the air that the musketry officer gets sick.

“‘Good heavens!’ he sez, as pale as death, ‘where did your bullet go, you careless feller?—perhaps you’ve hit somebody on the other side of the hill!’

“An’ he’s taught that he mustn’t point his rifle at anyone, an’ mustn’t fix his bayonet in the barrack-room, an’ mustn’t do anything that’s likely to hurt anybody.

“Now, this is all right in a way, because you get chaps into the Army who ain’t fit to trust with a catapult, never mind about rifles.

“Nobody in their senses could complain because the Army was cautious, but it only goes to prove what I say—that all the trainin’ the young soldier gets is in one direction—that the wickedest thing in the world to do is to hurt anybody else.

“Then comes the war an’—whack! goes the trainin’ of a lifetime.

“‘Do you see that Afridi?’ sez the officer; ‘that one in the white shirt on the little hill? Him that’s wavin’ his arms?’

“‘Yes, sir,’ sez the young soldier.

“‘Well, put him out of mess,’ sez the officer; ‘aim at his belt—range 850 yards—allow a foot for windage—now.’

“‘Bang!’

“‘Very good,’ sez the officer, ‘I rather think you hit him in the head, there’s another one. Don’t aim so high—now! ’

“‘Bang!’

“‘That’s better,’ sez the officer, very pleased. ‘That got him fairly; try that old chap with the whiskers.’

“An’ so it goes on.

“A war might last a week, an’ it might last three years. When it lasts a week it’s called a ‘punitive expedition,’ an’ it means that you come on the enemy unawares, catch him a swipe in the jaw, an’ run away like blazes before he recovers hisself.

“When the war lasts longer, like the South African war did, it upsets a chap more than a short war, because a short war’s a sort of horrible dream, an’ it’s all over before you’ve time to change your habits.

“But three years of war does no good for the young soldier, because it comes at the time when he’s, so to speak, formin’ his character.

“He’s got the habit of takin’ his rifle an’ shootin’ quick; he’s got the habit of countin’ his success by the number of chaps he’s killed, an’ that’s not healthy.

“When the South African war broke out there was a corporal of ours, named Thatcher, a big feller with a loose lip an’ a scowl that never seemed to leave him. He wasn’t exactly popular. He’d been a colour-sergeant in the Wigshires, an’ had been reduced to corporal for some affair with a woman. They transferred him to us in India, because he said he couldn’t soldier as a corporal in a regiment where he’d been colour-sergeant, and from the very first day he came to us he was hated.

“You’d think you could get even with a chap like that, who was unpopular all round, but as a matter of fact, it was impossible unless you did somethin’ particularly low-down, an’ none of our chaps would do that. For Corporal Thatcher was a good soldier, an’ knew his work from A to Z, an’ there wasn’t any change to be got out of him.

“He’d a bitter tongue, an’ had the instinct for findin’ out a feller’s tender spots.

“He fell foul of Nobby the first day he was in the regiment. ‘You talk too much,’ he sez to Nobby, ‘you’re like an old woman.’

“‘Do I, corporal?’ sez Nobby, innocent.

“‘Yes, you do,’ sez the Corporal; ‘perhaps you don’t know it.’

“‘I don’t,’ sez Nobby. ‘I don’t know how an old woman talks, or young woman either; I never go to the married quarters.’

“Nobby’s got a nasty tongue of his own, I might say, an’ I saw Thatcher go white with rage at Nobby’s hint.

“After that, Thatcher got Nobby ‘set’—always givin’ him dirty little jobs to do.

“One day when there was only Thatcher, Nobby an’ me in the bungalow—we was in Bombay at the time—Nobby walks up to the Corporal an’ sez:

“‘Corporal, can I have a word with you?’

“Thatcher looks at him as though he was a new kind of insec’.

“‘You get on with your work,’ he sez.

“‘Never mind about the work,’ sez Nobby, ‘what I wan’t to know is, are you a man? ’

“‘What!’ roars Thatcher.

“‘Because, if you are,’ sez Nobby, ‘an’ will drop your rank for ten minutes, I’ll push your face round to the back of your head’—or words to that effect.

“‘You heard that!’ sez Thatcher to me, an’ ran to the bungalow door yellin’ for the guard.

“They came across at the double, an’ Nobby’ was taken to the guard room in quick time. Next day, at orderly room, I was called as evidence.

“‘Did you hear this, Smith?’ sez the adjutant.

“‘Hear what, sir?’ I sez.

“‘Hear Private Clark threaten the Corporal?’

“‘No, sir,’ I sez.

“‘What!’ sez Thatcher, ‘didn’t you hear him threaten to strike me?’

“‘No,’ I sez; ‘from what I gathered he was addressin’ his remarks to me.’

“The adjutant looks at me.

“‘But I thought you an’ Clark were such good friends,’ he sez, suspicious.

“‘We used to be,’ I sez, regretful, ‘but we had misunderstandin’s lately.’

“That got Nobby off, and Thatcher never forgave me.

“Soon after this we went home, then came the war, an’ we was ordered to hold ourselves in readiness for South Africa. There was some delay’ about our leavin’ Aldershot, because we were expectin’ a draft from the other battalion in Egypt, an’ the news went round that amongst the draft was Thatcher’s brother.

“‘Bloomin’ fine regiment this will be,’ sez Nobby, gloomily, ‘bad enough with Thatcher—what’ll it be with a deuce of ’em?’

“The strange thing about it was, that most of us had a likin’ for young Thatcher before he arrived, an’ the reason was that somebody had heard the Corporal talkin’ about him one night in the Corporal’s room.

“‘He’s a mealy cub,’ sez Thatch, ‘been tied up to his mother’s apron strings too long. The old woman’s dead now, an’ he’s come into the Army. I’ll make him sit up.’

“The draft arrived three days before we sailed for Africa, an’ young Thatcher was the sickliest lookin’ of the lot. How the doctor came to pass him for Egpytian service is one mystery, an’ how our doctor marked him fit for active service is another. He was more like a girl than a man, a timid, pale-faced boy, shy an’ awkward.

“I was in the room when he came in to see his brother.

“‘Hullo, Bill,’ he sez.

“‘Not so much of the Bill,’ sez Thatch; ‘I’m Corporal Thatcher to you my boy, an’ don’t you forget it.’

“This enthusiastic reception so staggered the kid that he didn’t say another word.

“I don’t know any of Thatch’s private business, but there must have been bad blood between the two, jealousy, or somethin’ of the sort, for the Corporal started makin’ the boy’s life a hell.

“All the rotten things he used to give Nobby to do he gave to the boy.

“He wasn’t a good sailor, an’ that made it worse, for it was on the voyage out that Thatcher started his pranks.

“‘I’ll make a man of you,’ he sez, an’ started to put work on to him that a low-caste sweeper wouldn’t have stood. Half the time the kid was seasick, an’ the other half he was gettin’ over it, an’ somehow Thatcher always chose the most disagreeable jobs for his brother. It got so bad that Nobby went to Thatch.

“‘Corporal,’ he sez, quietly, ‘I want you to take me before the Commanding Officer.’

“‘What for?’ sez Thatch.

“‘ I’m goin’ to make a complaint about the way you treat your brother,’ sez Nobby.

“‘Look here,’ sez Thatch, through his teeth, ‘you keep your nose out of my business or it’ll be the worse for you.’

“‘Never mind about that,’ sez Nobby, ‘I want to see the Commanding Officer.’

“‘Suppose you see him?’ sez Thatch with a sneer, ‘where’s your evidence?’

“‘Your brother’s evidence’s enough,’ sez Nobby.

“Thatch laughed.

“‘You fool, do you think he’s goin’ to give evidence against me—did Smithy give evidence against you?’

“That upset Nobby’s plan—he knew he couldn’t depend on the brother, because he’d already sounded him, an’ found him shy of chargin’ Thatch.

“Toward the end of the voyage, the youngster had a better time because the Corporal nearly met with an accident.

“One night, when he was leanin’ over the ship’s side, Billy Mason fell against him an’ nearly knocked him overboard.

“‘You did that for the purpose,’ gasps Thatch, with a face like a taller candle.

“But Billy swore he tripped over a bucket an’ couldn’t help it, an’ there was the bucket on the deck to prove it. I know it was there, because I saw Nobby an’ Billy put it there.

“Nobby said the idea was to frighten Thatch, an’ that was probably true.

“Anyhow, the youngster had a more peaceful life till the ship reached port, an’ we entrained for up country. Then the dog’s life began all over again.

“The boy was a weaklin’, but he’d got plenty of grit. He’d march on one leg sooner than chuck it up. But whatever he did, nothin’ satisfied his brother. It was nag, nag, nag from day to day, an’ things worse than naggin’. He’d post him on the lonesomest post he could find, send him out scoutin’ whenever he happened to be in his sections.

“The kid was plucky under fire, an’ so long as a fight was goin’ on, but when it was all over, an’ it came to collectin’ the dead an’ wounded, I’ve seen him beg, with tears in his eyes, to be excused the duty of bringin’ in the casualties.

“‘I can’t stand it, Bill,’ he sez, once. ‘I can’t bear to see people in pain.’

“‘I’ve told you about Bill-ing me,’ sez the Corporal. ‘Now, do as you’re told—go out with No. 3 party, you miserable little worm.’

“This sort of thing went on for the best part of three years, an’ somehow the kid got quieter an’ quieter, an’ he used to sit broodin’ for hours at a time.

“One day he turned on his brother.

“‘You’re tryin’ to make me as big a brute as yourself,’ he sez, ‘an’ it’ll be a bad day’s work for you when you succeed.’

“The Corporal ‘run’ him for that; charged him usin’ threatening language to a superior. I believe our Colonel was a bit shocked at one brother chargin’ the other, because although that sort of thing is all right in story-books, it don’t look so nice when it actually happens.

But the charge was proved, an’ young Thatcher awarded ‘field punishment,’ which meant that he had to be tied up to the wheel of an ammunition waggon for two hours.

“Till the war was all over, the youngster said nothin’ an’ did nothin.’ We went into barracks at Pretoria, an’ settled down for a bit to a quiet, peaceful life. One day the whole secret about Thatcher an’ the boy came out.

“It was over a letter—we was all sat round the table peelin’ ’em for dinner, when in walked Thatcher with the letter in his hand. He walked straight up to the youngster who was sittin’ at one end of the table, an’ the boy didn’t lift his eyes.

“‘Here—you,’ sez Thatcher, roughly. ‘I’ve got some news for you—father’s dead.’

“‘My father?’ sez the youngster, jumpin’ up.

“‘No—my father,’ sez Thatcher, with a sneer; ‘don’t try to kid us you don’t know who your father was.’

“The youngster looked dazed.

“‘You don’t suppose you was kicked round at home for nothin’, do you? You don’t suppose my father had a down on you because you was his son, do you?’ sez Thatcher. ‘Why you——’

“He used a word that ain’t allowed in a barrack-room, an’ Nobby reached out an’ caught him by the collar.

“‘Hands off,’ shouted Thatcher, an’ sprang back.

“I don’t know why it was but nobody moved as the boy staggered to his bed cot an’ fumbled like a blind man at the arm-rack. Before we could get near him he had his rifle in his hand and the breach open. I heard the cold tinkle of the cartridge fallin’ into its place.

“‘Bill,’ he sez, and the Corporal seemed paralysed with fear. ‘Bill,’ he sez, ‘father’s in Hell, go to him an’ tell him why I sent you.’

“Thatcher was dead before he touched the ground.”</story>