<story title="NOBBY, LIMITED" date="1908">
“I HAVE every reason to believe,” stated Captain Umfreville, of the Anchester Regiment, in his evidence before the Court of Enquiry, “that Private Clark was animated by a most sincere, however mistaken, sense of duty and patriotism.”

I am referring to the Court that was held in Aldershot in 1902 to enquire into an act of sacrilege preferred against certain men of the Anchester Regiment.

This sounds very serious, but it is not quite so serious as it sounds. I do not intend making a long story of Private Clark’s deed—it may be told in a few words.

When the Anchester Regiment returned to England at the close of the South African War, the transport was six hours out of Gibraltar, to which port she had called to land the Kent Regiment, when something happened. Whether it was her propeller that went konk, or her water tubes that went phutt, I have never been able to discover, and I am prepared to brain the man who would enlighten me. Certain it is that the ship put into Cadiz, that in Cadiz is the Church of Emanuel of Saragossa, that in this church are certain tattered standards captured from an old enemy, and that one of these standards is the King’s colours of the 109th, which to-day is known as the Anchester Regiment.

It is not difficult for me to appreciate the state of mind in which Nobby Clark smuggled himself ashore with the object and intention of pinching the lost colours. I know that to relieve the tedium of the wait Major Morris had lectured to the men on the history of Cadiz, and that he had been sufficiently ill-advised to mention the fact that the old-time colours of the regiment graced the walls of the Inglesia de S. Emanuelo de Saragossa.

Nobby went ashore, and came back. Round his waist and beneath his coat was wound a faded rag inscribed with mystic words. He had had a difficulty in getting away with his booty, for the church is popular with sightseers.

But he had succeeded. Later came the news to the ship that an act of sacrilege had been committed, some felonious and unknown person had stolen a banner specially designed so that it might harmonise with the solemn interior of the church—a banner with this strange device (in Spanish):—“Visitors are cautioned to beware of pickpockets.” As to the captured standard of the Anchesters, it had long since been removed to Seville.

Somehow, poor Nobby’s “errow,” as he described it bitterly, became “public property” in the regiment, hence the Court of Enquiry held behind closed doors, before five prejudiced officers, all anxious to find excuses for the unhappy soldier who stood before them.

In view of the evidence which is known to have been given, the finding of the Court is a curious one:—


“1. We find that Private Clark, of the Anchester Regiment, carried away from the Iglesia de S. Emanuelo a banner, the property of the church.

“2. We find that he did this in error, and that he had no intention of stealing this banner.

“3. We censure him for going ashore without leave at Cadiz, but exonerate him from all knowledge of the character of the banner he inadvertently brought away with him.”

Now, I hold this finding to be equivocal, but in the best of taste. Furthermore, it is devilishly ingenious.

I tell you this story for a reason.

If at any future time I refer carelessly to Nobby Clark’s three mistakes, you will understand that this was one of them. There was another, about which I will some day write, and yet another, the particulars of which are hereunder set forth.

“Did ever I tell you about a chap called Nathan?” asked Smithy. “His real name was Higgins, but he knew enough about the army to call hisself a Jew when he enlisted. When other fellers was gettin’ ready for kit inspection on Saturdays, Mr. Bloomin’ Nathan would be strollin’ down town lookin’ for religious instruction, an’ on Sundays, when we’d be toilin’ to church in our best Sunday clothes, he’d be loafin’ in the High-street waitin’ for the Gentiles synagogue to open at 1 p.m. It was Nobby who found out this chap was a Christian—never mind how he found it out—an’ Nobby had a very great respect for Higgins ever after. In fact, Nobby would have changed his religion quick but for certain reasons I needn’t go into.

“‘It’s the artfullest idea I’ve ever heard of,’ sez Nobby, admiringly; ‘he has two Sundays a week, an’ all sorts of fancy holidays chucked in—it’s hard on two Christians like you an’ me, Smithy.’

“It was Nobby who found out his name was Higgins—or said he’d found it out, which comes to much the same thing, for what Nobby sez, he believes.

“Now, about that affair at Cadiz, Nobby made two mistakes, one of ’em you know all about, an’ the other was over this chap Higgins, or Nathan.

“Nathan was a terrible financial chap—knew all about how to make money out of nothin’, how fire assurances was run, an’ things like that, an’ when we got up the indignation meetin’ over our flag, it was Nathan’s idea that we should run a sort of limited company.

“As a rule, Nobby can do all the money gatherin’ that has to be done, but he was sort o’ hypnotised by Nathan, an’ before we knew where we was the company was formed, Nathan got a lot of shares for nothin’, and voted hisself a salary on the top of it.

“‘What sort of business do you call that?’ sez Nobby.

“‘High finance,’ sez Nat.

“‘Thanks for the tip,’ sez Nobby.

“Long after the affair at Cadiz had been done with, I could see there was somethin’ on Nobby’s mind. I thought it was the row he got into, but that wouldn’t depress Nobby.

“An’ he was depressed.

“All the time we was in England before the order came for the regiment to go back to Gibraltar, whatever it was, it sort of made him downhearted.

“One night down at the ‘Glass Barrel’ I asked him what was bitin’ him, an’ he up an’ told me.

“‘It’s that turn-up in Cadiz,’ he sez, an’ when I started to comfort him, he sez: ‘Oh, it ain’t not gettin’ the flag, or any fool nonsense like that—it’s the money part of it.’

“He paused a bit.

“‘Look here,’ he sez, ‘I didn’t get the flag, did I?’

“‘No,’ I sez, ‘You got a winder blind with “Beware of——”’

“‘Never mind about that,’ sez Nobby, very lofty. ‘I did me best. I spent money, didn’t I?’

“‘You did,’ I sez. ‘Some of my money.’

“‘An’ none of the shareholders didn’t get anything back?’

“‘No,’ I sez; ‘Spud Murphy sez it was a swindle.’

“‘Forget Spud Murphy,’ sez Nobby, who’s a bit touchy at times.

“‘Well, nobody got anything out of it—except Nathan.’

“‘Did he?’ I sez.

“‘He did,’ sez Nobby, very emphatic. ‘He got half-a-quid out of it, an’ made out I owed him another—now how do you account for that?’

“Not knowin’, I couldn’t give my opinion.

“‘It’s high finance,’ sez Nobby, very impressive. ‘It’s puzzled me, but that’s what it is. I’ve just got a book on it; it’s a new lay, an’ I’m goin’ to try it meself.’

“Now Nobby’s got a reputation throughout the regiment for makin’ money, an’ fellers’ll sit for hours listening to him when he spins a tale. Them two are Nobby’s great gifts, an’ if there’s another chap in the army who can make tuppence go farther than Nobby I’d like to meet him.

“I think it must have been Nobby who brought the conversation round to hisself that night at the canteen, for after he’d been talkin’ for half-an-hour, Billy Mason sez:

“‘I’ll bet you’ve got a fine old stockin’, Nobby.’

“‘I have,’ sez Nobby, which was rather surprisin’, for I’ve never known him to give his private affairs away before.

“‘How much have you got pouched?’ sez Billy.

“‘Hundreds of pounds,’ sez Nobby, prompt.

“‘How much do you reckon to make a week?’ sez Billy.

“‘Two or three pounds,’ sez Nobby; an’ I gasped.

“‘You’re a wonder,’ sez Billy, shakin’ his head, ‘an’ you’ve never been found out?’

“‘It ain’t a question of bein’ found out,’ sez Nobby, rather huffily; ‘all my business is square an’ above board. It’s high finance.’

“‘Is that another name for stealin’?’ sez Spud Murphy.

“‘You can all do the same,’ sez Nobby. ‘You can all have a share in the profits if you want it.’

“An’ then he explained what high finance was, an’ how they could take shares in him. Nathan was the first to jump at it.

“‘Turn yourself into a company, Nobby,’ he sez, quick. ‘I’ll float you .’

“‘Thanks,’ sez Nobby, very cold, ‘but if there’s anything to be made out of this job, I’d rather make it meself.’

“But Nathan was very nice about it. He said he didn’t want to make a cent, but was willin’ to give Nobby all the advice for nothin’, an’ the end of it was Nobby turned himself into a company, an’ me an’ a lot of other fellers took shares in him. Nathan wrote down the arrangements. We handed our money over to Nobby, an’ he was to use it to the best advantage.

“Business went on splendid. The first night Nobby made twenty-eight shillin’s at nap; the second day he sold a lot of eggs (what I’ve told you about), the third day he backed two winners at the pony races, an’ the company was in a flourishin’ condition.

“‘It’s the greatest idea that ever was,’ sez Nathan, very enthusiastic, ‘an’ I’m glad I’m a preferential share­holder.’

“‘What’s that?’ sez Nobby, suspicious.

“‘Why, what I told you when we formed the company,’ sez Nat.

“‘I remember,’ sez Nobby, slowly, ‘you told me there was two kinds of shareholders, them that get money, an’ them that get a balance-sheet.’

“‘That’s right,’ sez Nathan. ‘I’m one of them that get money.’

“‘What am I?’ sez Nobby, ‘an’ what do I get?’

“‘You’ll get a vote of thanks from the shareholders.’

“I don’t think Nathan quite understood Nobby’s fine temperament. Come the end of the week, Nobby Limited was the successfullest business in Gibraltar.

“We turned up in the canteen for our dividends, an’, to everybody’s surprise, we got paid out. It was one of the curiousest things that had ever happened. Every­body was satisfied except Nathan.

“‘I think you’ve made a bit of a mistake, Nobby,’ he sez.

“‘No, I haven’t,’ sez Nobby.

“‘My share’s twice this,’ sez Nathan, ‘I’m a preferential shareholder.’

“‘Oh, no, you’re not,’ sez Nobby, as bold as brass, ‘you’re one of the ordinary ones. I’ve reconstructed meself!’

“You see Nobby had learned a thing or two from the book. Nathan swallered something in his throat.

“‘What about them Articles of Association?’ he sez.

“‘I’ve lost ‘em,’ sez Nobby, very calm.

“Nathan pulled hisself together, an’ talked quite pleasantly. Asked what was the prospects for next week, an’ how much money he had in hand.

“Nobby had nearly six pounds.

“‘We ought to have a good week next week,’ sez Nobby. ‘I know a horse that’s a certainty for the Gibraltar Hunt Cup, an’ I’m thinkin’ of startin’ a new secret society that ought to be good for a pound.’

“On the Monday night, just as Nobby an’ me was gettin’ ready to go down town to see a chap about buyin’ a job lot of cards—“What is home without a bulldog,” an’ things of that sort—Nathan strolled into the room. There was nobody there but us three, an’ Nathan sat down at the table.

“‘I’ve got an idea, Nobby,’ he sez, ‘that might help the funds of the company.’

“‘What’s that?’ sez Nobby.

“‘Why don’t you play “spot the lady” on the troops,’ sez Nathan, an’ pulls out three cards; ‘it’s the easiest way of makin’ money.’

“‘It’s too easy,’ sez Nobby.

“‘It’s not so easy,’ sez Nathan, shufflin’ the cards awkwardly. ‘Now, I’m no expert, but I’ll bet you couldn’t pick out the Queen of Diamonds.’

“‘What’ll you bet?’ sez Nobby, quick. He saw a way of getting money, an’ he never lost an opportunity.

“‘Ten pesetas,’ sez Nathan, an’ Nobby whacked down the money, an’ picked a card.

“It was the deuce of spades.

“‘It’s not so easy, is it?’ sez Nat, pocketin’ the money.

“‘Let’s see you do it again,’ sez Nobby, an’ Nat placed the cards an’ shuffled them like lightnin’.

“‘That’s it,’ sez Nobby, pointin’.

“‘What’ll you bet?’ sez Nat.

“‘Four dollars,’ sez Nobby, an’ picked up the card.

“It was the three of clubs.

“Nobby had five pounds in his pocket, an’ had lost another.

“‘Try me again,’ he sez.

“So Nat shuffled the cards, an’ Nobby chose one.

“‘For how much?’ sez Nat.

“‘For a quid,’ sez Nobby, an’ picked the deuce of spades again.

“Things were pretty serious for Nobby. Two pounds of the ‘stock money’ was gone, an’ I could see the perspiration standin’ out on his forehead.

“‘I’ll have another go,’ he sez, an’ lost another two quid in the twinklin’ of an eye.

“Nat was smilin’ as sweet as an angel.

“‘Try again,’ he sez.

“‘Yes,’ sez Nobby, very slow, ‘but you’ve got to give me odds.’

“‘I’ll bet you two to one,’ sez Nat, an’ shuffled the cards.

“‘Wait a bit,’ sez Nobby, an’ went to his box, an’ fished out three more quids. ‘It’s six pounds or nothin’,’ he sez.

“Nat shuffled the cards again.

“‘Now,’ he sez.

“Nobby looks at the cards.

“‘If I’m to believe me own eyes,’ he sez, ‘it’s the one in the middle, but it can’t be that one, or you wouldn’t let me see it. So it must be one of the other two, an’ I’ll toss for it: heads right, tails left,’ an’ he flicked up a peseta.

“‘Left,’ he sez.

“I saw Nat frown, but Nobby’s hand was on the card an’ turned it over; it was the Queen of Diamonds. Nat sort of staggered.

“Nobby wiped the perspiration from his forehead.

“‘Nat,’ he sez, as he picked up his six pounds, ‘I’ve made another mistake in regard to you,’ he picked up the cards from the table an’ put ’em in his pocket, ‘I thought you was a gentleman.’

“He walked sorrerfully from the room an’ me with him.”

“When we got down to the waterport he brightened up.

“‘That was nearly a fatal errow,’ he sez; ‘did you see Nathan palm the Queen of Diamonds off the table into his pocket?’

“‘No,’ I sez, in surprise.

“‘He did,’ sez Nobby.

“‘But,’ I sez, a bit bewildered, ‘the Queen of Diamonds was on the table, you turned it up yourself.’

“Nobby was silent for a bit.

“‘Nathan ain’t the only chap who can palm,’ he said, very mysteriously, ‘I found a Queen of Diamonds in my box when I was gettin’ out the money. It’s a good job Nathan didn’t want to see the back of the card.’

“He was silent again, then he said with a sigh:

“‘High finance is a bit tryin’, Smithy—but I think we’ll pay a dividend this week.’”</story>