<story title="THE GHOST OF THE BROOK" date="1908">
IF you add to the title of your romance (supposing that you are an author) the sub-title, “A true story,” you may expect your readers to yawn in anticipation, for, as everybody knows, a true story is a dull story. The only “true story” I know that wasn’t hopelessly dull, was the life and adventures of Louis de Rougevitch. This narrative was so exceptionally interesting that all shrewd people knew it was a lie. Truth is stranger than fiction, and infinitely duller.

Therefore, I place no sub-title to this adventure of Smithy’s. I avoid explanation, save the explanation that is in courtesy due from writer to reader.

Simonstown is the most southerly town in Africa. South of Simonstown runs a rocky promontory, that ends at a rugged headland, which throughout the world is famous as the Cape of Good Hope. Locally, it is called Cape Point. Behind Simonstown itself rises a range of hills, and one towering above its fellows is known as Simonsberg.

Of Simonstown itself there is no need to speak. Its one straggling street that stretches from the railway station to the cemetery; its stretch of placid blue bay; its white warships, and trim dockyard; its tiny barracks perched on a shelf of hill.—I tell you of these, incidentally, and not because they are material to the story.

Smithy regards Simonstown from a different point of view. Smithy is practical, and utilitarian, and there is very little of the sentimental nonsense in Smithy’s composition.

“I was at Simonstown before they started the new docks,” he said, “an’ naturally the beer wasn’t half as good as it is now. In fact, Simonstown was a very dull place, so dull that Nobby up an’ joined the Good Templars. That will show you how dull Simonstown was. Nobby wanted me to come along, too, but I’d got something else to do with my money. Nobby was a Good Templar for a week, after which he had a slight disagreement with a half-caste brother, whose name was Sams, an’ the consequence of this was that some of Sams’ black blood came out.

“Then Yatesey’s sister sent him out a new spellin’ game, an’ we played that for a week. It was played with cards. You shuffled ’em an’ dealt ’em, an’ the feller who could make a word out of the cards in his hand won the money. It was a bit difficult, because when you put a word down the chap next to you could challenge you. Then you had to look in the dictionary an’ see if it was spelt that way; an’ if it wasn’t you had to pay.

“‘Molix,’ sez Nobby, puttin’ down the word.

“‘What’s “Molix”?’ sez Spud, suspicious.

“‘A “Molix,”’ sez Nobby, thoughtful, ‘is a little fish.’

“‘I won’t have “Molix” at any price,’ sez Spud, so they looked in the dictionary an’ found it wasn’t there, an’ Nobby paid.

“A little while after:

“‘Domsin,’ sez Nobby, putting down his cards very surefully, ‘an’ if you challenge that word, Spud, you’ll lose your money, because I looked it up this mornin’.’

“But Spud challenged it, an’ that wasn’t there, either, so Nobby paid again.

“Next day, when they went to play, the dictionary—it belonged to Corporal Sims—was missin’, but Nobby said he could remember most of the words in his head.

“Tiny White put down ‘hair,’ but Nobby said he couldn’t pass it owin’ to there bein’ no ‘h’ in air. A little while after Nobby put down ‘gromb,’ an’ when Spud challenged it, Nobby said that it meant ‘fierce an’ wild.’

“Nobby might have made the spellin’ game pay, only the dictionary was discovered in the nick of time. They found it hidden under some shirts in Nobby’s box.

“That bust up the spellin’ game, an’ me an’ Nobby went in for fishin’ with a line we borrered from Pug Wilson an’ a lead we pinched from the quartermaster sergeant.

“The bait was our own.

“It was a nice easy life in Simonstown—no parades, eight nights in bed,* an’ nothin’ to do but smoke an’ fish.

* Eight days between guards.

“We’d arranged to go over Red Hill one day. We were goin’ to take some grub an’ a couple of bottles of beer, an’ walk across country to the other side of the peninsular to see the place where the Birkenhead went down, an’ had got our passes signed by the C.O., when somethin’ altogether unexpected happened.

“As you know, there are two guards at Simonstown, the guard on the gate at the R.A. Barracks an’ the guard on the Kloof Magazine. You’ve heard me talk of No. 2 Magazine at Anchester, an’ the magazine guard at Peshawar. Well, they was absolutely nothin’ to the Kloof guard at Simonstown. It’s away back from the town through ‘The Brook,’ an’ right into the hills. It’s a narrer, lonely ravine with a high waterfall, an’ the chap on guard is away from light an’ sound—except the sound of the baboons a-chatterin’ on the hills, an’ the splash of the water fallin’.

“It wasn’t a cheerful place, but then you don’t expect a magazine guard to be as lively as the Strand, an’ though nobody liked the job, nobody shirked it.

“One night, it was the night before me an’ Nobby went off for our excursion, we was sittin’ outside the barracks talkin’.

“By rights we ought to have been in bed, for it was long after ‘lights out,’ but it was one of them glorious nights that you get in Africa, a bright moon making everythin’ clear as day, an’ the bay all glimmerin’. We was talkin’ about how money flies (Nobby started it), when we heard the sentry on the gate:

“‘Number one—an’ all’s well!’ he yelled.

“We stopped talkin’ an’ waited for No. 2 at the Kloof to answer.

“We waited an’ waited, but there was no sound.

“‘Who’s on No. 2?’ sez Nobby.

“‘Ten till twelve—Why, it’s Culley Carter,’ sez Spud.

“We listened again, but heard nothin’.

“‘He must have answered, an’ we didn’t hear him,’ sez Nobby.’ but just then we heard the main guard sentry—Happy Johnson it was—shout:

“‘No. 1—an’ all’s well!’ an’ we knew that No. 2 hadn’t spoken.

“Three times No. 1 called, an’ three times there was no answer, an’ then we heard Happy shout, ‘Guard, turn out!’

“‘Come along,’ sez Nobby, jumpin’ up, ‘we’ll cut along the back path to the magazine—old Culley ought to be warned the guard’s comin’ up.’

“We’d made our start, when the corporal of the main guard called again, an’ in the clear night air you could hear him distinctly, although it was a quarter of a mile away.

“‘No. 1—all’s well? ’

“He put it in a sort of questionin’ tone—an’ there came an answer:

“Land on the larboard bow, sir!’

“It wasn’t the words that made our blood run cold; it was the voice.

“Harsh, an’ cracked, an’ almost screamin’.

“‘That’s not Culley,’ whispered Nobby—an’ we ran along the dark little path that leads to the magazine.

“There was half-a-dozen of us, but we came up to the railin’s of the magazine almost abreast.

“As we reached it, we heard the tramp of the guard comin’ through ‘The Brook’ below.

“‘Culley!’ called Nobby, but there was no answer.

“‘Culley!’ he shouted.

“We could hear the guard halt at the sound of our voices, and the corporal in charge challenged us in the darkness.

“‘Halt! Who comes there?’

“‘Friend,’ sez Nobby. ‘It’s Clark, an’ half-a-dozen of our chaps.’

“‘What’s wrong?’ sez the corporal.

“‘I don’t know,’ sez Nobby; ‘we’ve come up to see.’

“The corporal opened the little wicket of the magazine with a key, an’ he an’ the guard went inside, an’ we flocked in after him.

“We couldn’t see anything of Culley for a bit, but after a while we found him.

“He was huddled up against the stonework of the magazine, insensible an’ foamin’ at the mouth.

“‘A fit,’ muttered the corporal.

“Nobby was lookin’ at Culley’s rifle.

“‘Corporal,’ he sez, suddenly, ‘look at this! ’

“The bolt of the rifle was open, an’ a round of ammunition had been pushed into the chamber.

“‘Old Culley was goin’ to shoot somebody,’ sez Nobby, ‘an’ that somebody was the chap who answered you.’

“The corporal turned quickly.

‘‘‘So you heard it, did you?—I thought it was some drunken sailor in “The Brook,”’ (There’s lots of low drinkin’ shanties near ‘The Brook.’)

“‘Couldn’t have been a “mulloch,” Corporal,’ sez Nobby, ‘he wouldn’t say “larboard”; he’d say “port!”’

“We got Culley down to the little hospital, an’ a new sentry was posted at the Kloof—Bill Mason, who’s got nerves like brass—an’ we all went back to barracks talkin’ the matter over, an’ wonderin’ what had frightened old Culley.

“First thing we heard next mornin’ was that Bill Mason had been found at five o’clock in the mornin’ in a dead faint.

“I could have understood it if it had been anybody but Bill, but Bill ain’t got any imagination at all. It took ’em nearly two hours to get Bill round, an’ when they did he said he’d seen a ghost. He stuck to it, too, before the company officer, an’ before the C.O. What’s more, they managed to bring Culley out of his fit, an’ Culley swore the same thing.

“‘A gashley sight,’ he sez, an’ shuddered. He couldn’t give any particulars, neither could Bill. All they could say was that they’d suddenly seen a most horrible face a-grinnin’ at ’em between the railings of the magazine.

“The C.O. sent for the Chief of the Police.

“‘Somebody has been trying to unnerve my men,’ he sez, ‘an’ it will be a bad job for that somebody if he repeats his joke, because I’ve given orders to the sentry on the Kloof to shoot at sight.’

“Instead of treatin’ the thing as a joke this police officer was very serious.

“‘It sounds like the “Ghost of the Brook,”’ he sez.

“‘Ghost!’ sez the C.O.; ‘stuff an’ nonsense! Bosh!’ an’ a few other tactful remarks.

“‘It isn’t nonsense, Colonel,’ sez the police chap. ‘The “Brook Ghost” is an old institution. I’ve been here twenty years, an’ I’ve heard about that ghost from the first day I arrived here.’

“‘Are you serious?’ sez the Colonel.

“‘I am, indeed,’ sez the police chap. ‘I believe in him almost as much as the natives; he’s been seen in every part of the peninsular; on lonely farms, at the outskirts of the town—why, there are at least three people in Simonstown Cemetery who have been scared there by the “Ghost of the Brook.”’

“Porky Cook, who’s a clerk in the orderly room, told us this, an’ when the orderly-room sergeant came round askin’ for volunteers for the Kloof guard I was one of the first to get out of his way.

“‘It’s a double guard,’ sez the orderly sergeant, ‘an’ although you can be “warned” for it, an’get cells for refusin’, the colonel wants volunteers. You can choose your own pals for the double!’

“So Nobby up an’ said that him an’ me would take one relief, an’ if it hadn’t been for the sergeant bein’ there I’d have clumped his head. But when I sat down to think of the matter seriously I was rather glad he volunteered, for I was a bit curious to see how it would turn out.

“After all, the Kloof’s a pretty place in the day time. We mounted an’ nothin’ happened till night. Nobby an’ me was on second relief—the guard mounted at ten—which was from twelve to two an’ six to eight. The fellers who were relieved at eight had nothin’ to tell, except Boyle, a bit of an author, who said he saw a strange white light a-hoverin’ over the hill.

“As it happened the warships was practisin’ with their searchlights that night, so we knew what Boyle’s strange, white light was.

“The men who came off at ten thought they’d heard peculiar noises.

“‘Like what?’ sez the corporal of the guard.

“‘Like bones rattlin’,’ sez the chaps, solemn.

“‘It was your knees knockin’ together,’ sez the corporal.

“We marched up through the Brook, an’ over the little wooden bridge that leads to the magazine, an’ the two men on guard were pretty glad to see us.

“‘Anythin’ to report?’ sez the corporal.

“It was Spud Murphy an’ Tiny White on guard. ‘Nothin’ much,’ sez Spud. ‘I thought I saw somethin’ movin’ in the Kloof—somethin’ comin’ down the side of the rock.’

“‘The waterfall, I expect,’ said the corporal, who hadn’t got to stay out all night an’ could afford to be comic.

“The first half hour passed off quietly; it was terribly quiet, so quiet that the little waterfall sounded like a roar, an’ the baboons talkin’ just like human voices.

“We got ‘All’s well’ from the main guard at one o’clock, an’ returned it.

“Our voices were still echoin’ through the kloof when I saw Nobby bend forward as if he was listenin’.

“‘Hush,’ he whispers. ‘Somebody’s singin’.’

“‘Somebody in the town,’ I sez.

“‘No—listen.’

“I listened, an’ couldn’t hear anythin’, then, close at hand, I heard the voice—a broken, hoarse, old voice. You couldn’t hear the words; it was a sort of croon.

“‘There he is,’ whispers Nobby.

“I could see nothin’—then my heart went up into my mouth, for suddenly, as if he’d come up out of the ground, I saw somethin’ rise up not six paces from me.

“Dark as it was, I could see his face... I heard Nobby mutter somethin’ an’ he reeled back. Only for a minute—then up went his rifle.

“‘Bang!’

“‘Shoot, Smithy!’ yelled Nobby, an’ I shot at the place I’d seen the thing sink.

“I pressed close to the railings—I could see nothing.

“‘Did you dekko the dial?’ sez Nobby. I could feel him shakin’, an’ I nodded.

“The guard came up at a run, with their lanterns. We searched all about the magazine, but could find nothin’.

“‘You’ve been dreamin’,’ sez the corporal. Then he jumped, for, from the darkness of the kloof, in the same cracked voice we heard:

“‘Rocks on the larboard bow,sir!’ came the hail, an’ a sort of quiet chuckle that froze your blood.

“We didn’t hear the ghost again that night; but when daylight came Nobby got permission to examine the ground where we’d seen the face. We found the marks of our bullets on a rock, but what he was so anxious to discover was footmarks an’ there were none. We searched up an’ down, an’ went to the very foot of the waterfall, without strikin’ on any clue.

“Nobby looks up at the face of the rock over which the water was peltin’.

“‘Nothin’ but a monkey could climb up there,’ he sez. Then he made his first discovery. The ground was wet owin’ to the spray of the fall, an’ on a patch of sand he found a footmark. It was perfectly distinct.

“‘A barefooted man,’ sez Nobby thoughtfully, ‘an’ a big foot.’

“‘A native,’ I sez, but Nobby shook his head.

“‘This mark is fairly fresh, an’ there’s been no natives near here since daybreak,’ he sez.

“By climbin’ up the hill at the back of the magazine we got to the head of the waterfall, an’ that’s where Nobby made his big discovery, for it wasn’t only that he found another footmark, but he suddenly dived down an’ picked up a bit of paper, almost black it was an’ greasy, an’ when he tried to open it, it fell to pieces. He gathered ’em carefully together an’ we got down the hill again.

“That mornin’ Nobby saw the colonel, an’ the colonel an’ Nobby went down to Admiralty House, an’ Nobby showed the admiral—Rawson it was, the best fightin’ sailor livin’—the paper. Before twelve o’clock there was four hundred sailors an’ soldiers searchin’ the hills. They searched ’em till the sun went down, goin’ carefully over every bit of ground.

“We was about four miles inland when the naval officer an’ our officer decided to drop the search for the night, an’ we was just formin’ up to march back again, when Nobby broke away from the ranks an’ ran to a heap of stone.

“‘Here he is!’ he shouted, an’ started chuckin’ the stones left an’ right.

He’d only to move a dozen before we saw a big hole in the ground.

“He was strippin’ off his coat to go in, when the man inside saved us the trouble ... he climbed out, peering left an’ right at the sailors.... Old! He must have been eighty. Dirty, with a long, dirty beard, an’ dirty, grey hair, an’ hands like the claws of a bird. He wore no clothes except a tattered old blanket, an’ he blinked an’ blinked in the light of the lanterns.

“By-an’-bye he spotted the naval officer an’ staggered towards him.

“‘Robson, sir,’ he sez, in his cracked voice, ‘I give myself up. I’ve lost my papers, but I’m Robson, A.B.’

“‘Robson? My poor man, who is Robson?’

The old man chuckled.

‘‘‘I was at the wheel, sir,’ he sez, ‘me an’ my mate.... I was at the wheel when she struck.... It was all my fault.’... He mumbled a bit, then he sez, ‘They’ll try me by court martial because I escaped... They was all drawn up in line, the sojers an’ the marines an’ the sailors, an’ the skipper sez, “Stand fast, Birkenheads!”’

“‘My God!’ said the naval officer, startin’ back.

“‘Out of Queenstown we sailed in January, ’52,’ the old man went on, ‘an’ ... I was at the wheel, but I got ashore an’ hid... I’ve been hidin’ ever since.’... He blinked at the officer.

“‘Try me by court martial,’ he muttered....‘I was at the wheel.’

“Nobby caught him as he fell.”</story>