<story title="THE WANDERER" date="1908">
THE influence of trades upon features, of professions upon physiognomy, have from time to time inspired learned articles in the expensive, but incomprehensible reviews. A well-known writer of fiction has based a notable creation upon the esoteric indications of servitude. Thus:—

“That man is a policeman; large feet, heavy tread, sleepy eyes—you know my methods, Watson?” You may not tell the soldier in mufti by any malformation of thumb, stoop of shoulder, or from the fact that he carries a stethoscope in his top hat and has Baker-street mud on his patent shoes. None the less he is unmistak­able. I can distinguish a soldier by the parting in his hair; whether he be cavalry or infantry by the shape of his moustache; whether a non-commissioned officer or a private by the carriage of his arm. The ex-non­commissioned carries his right arm a little forward in walking, being conscious of his chevrons.

Mostly you may tell the old soldier by his cleanliness, his gait, and the fact that he is out of work.

The army stamps a man with an indefinable “some­thing,” it implants in him in a surprisingly short space of time a new sense of patriotism, a curious dignity, and unimagined moral qualities.

It takes a weedy youth from the street corners. He is not a pleasant looking youth. He is thin, pale, anemic, smokes cheap cigarettes, wears a choker and has a large sized “boy on his back.” He has a smattering of education. For seven years a despairing board school master has been engaged in implanting a medley of the multiplication table and a knowledge of Shakespeare’s plays into his unreceptive mind. He can read well enough to study the probable starters and jockeys, and write sufficiently legibly to convey to an opulent book­maker that he desires to back “Santo Strato 1s. each way, any to come Canonite 1s. to win, all on Yentoi.”

Then comes the recruiting sergeant, jocose and sarcastic: What, join the Army? he’d watch it! says our pallid youth. Perhaps, hints the wily recruiter, he hasn’t the chest or height or weight? Thus challenged, the boy shuffles one fine morning before an Army doctor, who strips him, taps him, measures him, and makes him hop on one leg, all of which being satisfactorily accomplished, the weed becomes a soldier.

Six months are supposed to elapse, as the play bills say, and our youth reappears one day in his old haunts. But what a change! Such a swaggering, chest-throwing, straight-backed youth! Such a quick stepping, head erect, arm swinging warrior, full of such mysterious phrases as “chance my arm,” “chewing the mop,” “fed up” and surprisingly conversant with foreign languages, calling bread “rutee” and water “pawney,” and telling younger brothers to “chuberow” when he desires silence.

In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred the recruit falls into the new life as though his childhood had been spent in making preparation for the event; he becomes amenable to discipline, conforms to military custom, and in course of time goes forth to war or foreign service with the blasé air of a man whose whole life has been engaged in warfare and travel.

But one man in a hundred is a misfit. He doesn’t suit the army or the army him. His career is marked by a succession of errors, his defaulter's sheet runs into three editions: punishments and good advice are alike thrown away on him. If by chance he escapes being discharged with ignominy, he pursues his military career serenely superior to all misfortune, a constant worry to his colour-sergeant, a nuisance to his comrades, and a source of anxiety to his commanding officer. He may be a bad character out of sheer devilry or from sheer indifference. Such a man was “Wandering” Monks.

“Old Wanderer wasn’t a bad sort,” explained Smithy. “He seldom drank, never fought, never did a mean, rotten thing like I’ve known other chaps to do. He’d lend his last bob to a pal at a push. But he was what you might call unresponsible for his actions. I don’t know whether that quite hits off Wanderer, because if he wanted to do a thing, there was nothin’ on earth or in the King’s regulations that stopped him.

“I shall never forget the first time I ever heard him buckin’ up against the Army. It was down Aldershot, just about a year before the war. Corporal Smith—Tom Smith, him that’s got a Government billet in Malta—was orderly corporal, an’ came into the barrack room to ‘warn’ the duty men.

“‘You’re for guard on Thursday, Clark,’ he sez. ‘Smith, you’ll be orderly room orderly on Thursday; Monks, you’re for town piquet.’

“‘I’m sorry,’ sez Wanderer, quite calm, ‘but I’ve got another engagement on Thursday.’

“‘You’ll have to postpone it,’ sez Tom, smilin’—he was the best chap in the world was Corporal Smith, a strong built feller, with hair goin’ a little grey, an’ a little moustache.

“‘I can’t,’ sez Wanderer. ‘You’ll have to get some­body else for piquet on Thursday.’

“Any other corporal would have put Wanderer straight into clink, but Tom just talked to him like a father; showed him what a silly ass he was in quite a nice way. It was the only time I’ve ever known Wanderer to be influenced, an’ perhaps it was because Tom happened to say that if Wanderer didn’t turn up, he might get into trouble.

“Anyhow, Wanderer turned up at the piquet parade all right.

“I want to say about Wanderer that he was a good, clean soldier, an’ I’ve seen him spend hours sittin’ on his bed cot burnishin’ his bayonet, an’ doin’ his straps, but somehow he’d got an idea that one man was as good as another, an’ perhaps better, an’ that nobody in the Army or out of the Army had any right to order anybody else about.

“‘It stands to reason,’ he sez, ‘whether a chap’s a colonel or a colour-sergeant or a bloomin’ drummer boy, he’s only a human bein’ like you an’ me with two legs an’ two eyes.’

“‘You’re talkin’ out of the back of your head,’ sez Nobby. ‘One man’s bound to be better than another. I’m better than you.’

“‘For why?’ sez Wanderer.

“‘Because I could take you by the scruff of your neck, an’ chuck you from here to the married quarters,’ sez Nobby.

“‘That don’t prove anything,’ sez Wanderer, very calm, ‘except that you’re a liar,’ he sez, thoughtfully.

“He got his name of ‘Wanderer’ from his habits. He used to go for long solitary walks. He never knew where he was goin’, but as soon as he got out of barracks he used to turn to the right or left, an’ keep goin’ until he was tired. He was never worried about not getting home. Once he walked from Aldershot to Winchester, an’ slept at Winchester. Next day he walked on towards Bournemouth, but changed his mind—if he ever had a mind—an’ went round to Salisbury. Four days later the military police arrested him outside a pub in Andover, an’ he got ten days for bein’ absent without leave. A month after he went out of barracks an’ the brilliant idea came to him to walk to London. He got as far as Surbiton an’ was collared by the civil police for not bein’ in possession of a pass. He got ten days for that, too.

“One afternoon Corporal Juggy Jones warned him for guard.

“‘When?’ sez Wanderer.

“‘To-morrow,’ sez Juggy, who was a bit of a rotter. ‘Make it Sunday,’ sez Wanderer, ‘I’m goin’ to Frimley to-morrow.’

“‘If you give me any of your lip,’ sez Juggy, ‘I’ll put you in the guard room.’

“‘All right,’ sez Wanderer, ‘put me there.’

“‘I’ll give you one more chance,’ sez Juggy.

“‘I’d sooner go to the guard room than take favours from a feller with a face like yours,’ sez Wanderer.

“He got seven days for that.

“He had plenty of luck, because he didn’t often come to grips with chaps like Juggy, but that didn’t save him from trouble.

“‘I’m a born Wanderer,’ he sez to me one day; ‘it’s in me blood. I like to go walkin’ through country, an’ see the flowers, the hedge roses an’ blue bells, an’ I’d sooner walk on the grass than walk on velvet—it’s nature.’

“‘It’s insanity,’ sez Nobby. ‘Fancy walkin’ anywhere when you can take a ’bus.’

“‘I like to hear the little birds a-singin’,’ sez Wanderer, ‘an’ smell the ’ay in the fields.’

“‘Then take my tip,’ sez Nobby, ‘buy yourself a canary an’ a truss of green meat, it’ll come cheaper in the long run.’

“But Wanderer kept wandering.

“I don’t know what would have happened, only the Boer War broke out an’ we went off to the front, an’ as there’s no chance of a chap strollin’ off for a ten-mile ramble on a troopship, he kept fairly free from crime. But he still managed to wander.

“He wandered down into the stoke hole one day, an’ wandered up to the mast head one dark night; there wasn’t a part of the bloomin’ ship from the captain’s cabin to the refrigerator where he didn’t wander into.

“‘I’ll put you in irons,’ sez the adjutant, very wild, ‘if you don’t stop your infernal wanderin’.’

“Next mornin’ Wanderer was missin’ from parade. We hunted the ship from bow to stern an’ we couldn’t find him. We looked into lockers, an’ under doormats, but still couldn’t find him, an’ a report went round that poor old Wanderer had been walkin’ in his sleep an’ had gone for a short stroll over the side.

“We found him at last. He’d gone for a wander into the engine-room an’ had fallen down a hole amongst some machinery. It’s a wonder he wasn’t smashed to little bits. They had to stop the ship an’ scotch-up the engines before they could get him out.

“‘After this,’ sez the adjutant, ‘there’s only one thing to be done.’

“So they put leg-irons on old Wanderer, an’ a special sentry was told off to keep him from straying. When we got to Cape Town, we were entrained.

“‘Have you got a prison van or a dog box?’ sez the adjutant to the railway chap, ‘because I’ve got a man with unreliable legs.’

“We managed to get him up to the front, an’ as we was marchin’ an’ fightin’ every day, the life suited old Wanderer to a T.

“He had all the walkin’ he wanted, an’ all the variety, too, an’ it wasn’t till we began sittin’ down tight on station duty that he got restive.

“We was stationed at Krugersdorp for two months, holding a line of blockhouses, an’ the life got a bit too monotonous for Wanderer.

“‘I’m gettin’ fed up with this,’ he sez to Nobby. ‘Doin’ nothin’ day after day—why, we might as well be Grenadier Guards,’ he sez.

“‘It suits me,’ sez Nobby.

“‘It don’t suit me,’ sez Wanderer. ‘Look at them Boers,’ he sez, wistful. ‘That’s the sort of life! Free an’ easy; no parades, goin’ about all over the country. They don’t have to shave an’ they don't have to wash— it’s a gentleman’s life.’

“When a chap like Wanderer begins to brood he does it quick. Other fellers I know would brood an’ brood an’ brood for days on end. Wanderer never brooded longer than two seconds, because, by the end of that time, he’s either made up his mind or else something comes along to distract his attention.

“There is a little hotel in Krugersdorp near the kirk an’ there’s a sort of livery stable attached.

“One day the hotel keeper came to see the colonel to collect an account.

“‘What account?’ sez the Colonel in surprise.

“‘For that Cape cart an’ two horses you had yesterday an’ haven’t returned,’ sez the hotel chap.

“‘What!’ sez the Colonel.

“‘For a case of whisky, two tins of biscuits, twenty-tins of potted tongue an’ a jar of jam,’ sez the hotel chap, readin’ from a list, ‘also for six pounds of tobacco an’ two dozen matches.’

“‘But I’ve never ordered ’em,’ sez the Colonel, ‘an’ never had ’em.’

“‘Oh, yes, you have,’ sez the hotel feller, ‘you had ’em yesterday. Your servant came to the hotel an’ took ’em—he drove the cart away himself.’

“‘My servant,’ sez the old man. ‘Why, my servant’s in hospital—what was he like?’

“The hotel man thought a bit.

“‘A chap with an habit of yawnin ’,’ he sez, ‘rather tall an’ thin, an’ stoops a little.’

“‘Monks!’ sez the adjutant, who was standin’ by—for Wanderer had been missin’ since the previous night.

“That afternoon a little Boer boy brought a note to the adjutant. Chummy Briggs, who’s the adjutant’s batman, copied it out when the adjutant was on parade.


‘Dere Sir,

‘This comes hopping to find you quiet well, I have left the army owing to me going to be a Bore. Trusting you are the same, with love to all,

‘Your sincere private,

‘W. Monks.’


“This was one of the most astonishin’ things that has ever happened in the Anchester Regiment. There wasn’t a man, from the Colonel down to Spud Murphy, who wasn’t knocked out of time by what Wanderer had done.

“I heard the adjutant speakin’ to Major Groves.

“‘It’s not treason or treachery—it’s just downright mad folly,’ he sez. ‘I’d give a month’s pay to have met him on the road—I’d have given him the biggest thrashing he ever had and sent him back.’

“When I told some of our chaps this, they didn’t agree.

“‘It’s High Treason an’ desertin’ to the enemy,’ sez Spud Murphy, ‘an’ from what I know of Courts——’

“‘What you know of Courts,’ sez Nobby, ‘especially Courts where you’re fined seven-an’-six or seven days for bein’ drunk an’ disorderly, ain’t worth discussin’; the question is what made old Wanderer go an’ do a silly ass trick like this?’

“We tried all sorts of ways to get him back. The Colonel sent four signallers in various directions, knowin’ that Wanderer was a first-class signaller, an’ they spent hours with the helio an’ lamp, tryin’ to get into communication with him, but it was useless.

“We heard nothing of him for about six weeks. Boer prisoners knew nothing either, an’ it seemed as though Wanderer was just loafin’ through the wilderness with the cart he borrered an’ the whisky an’ jam he’d pinched, enjoyin’ hisself to his heart’s content. Then came one of the big ‘drives,’ when we, with ten other regiments, started clearin’ the country around Krugersdorp. It was hard work. Trekkin’ an’ fightin’, day an’ night. The Boers just spread an’ let us through, then closed up again behind us. It was like fishin’ for whitebait with a torpedo net. The only good it did was to keep the Boers movin’, but as it also kept us movin’ it had, what I might call, disadvantages. And all the time never a word did we get of Wanderer.

“One night the regiment was camped at a place called Brakpan. It was right in the middle of the veldt, with a long range of hills three miles away to our right front, and another two miles off on our left front. Our job was to prevent the enemy doublin’ back through the valley.

“The hills on the left were held by the Kents, an’ the hills on the right was supposed to be too difficult for the Boers to try. On the other side of the left hills was Morant and the Australians, so, generally speakin’, we had the Boers coopered. We stood to arms most of the night. I was on duty with ‘B,’ who held a trench in advance of the camp.

“Toward midnight a storm broke on the other side of the left hill. You could see the lightning zig-zagging, an’ the thunder, practically speakin’, never ceased.

“The adjutant an’ two of our officers were up by me. They were lying on the rough trench lookin’ ahead through their glasses.

“Nobby was by my side an’ suddenly he said:

“‘Beg pardon, sir—that was a gun!’

“The adjutant looked round.

“‘Thunder, I think,’ he sez.

“‘It was guns,’ sez Nobby; ‘there it goes again on the other side of the hill.’

“The adjutant was undecided—an’ so was I, for it’s hard to tell which is a gun an’ which is thunder at a distance. Then:

“ omp—oomp—oomp!

“‘Guns, by jove!’ sez the adjutant, jumpin’ up; ‘that was a pom-pom.’

“He turned to the signaller.

“‘Send a message to the camp,’ he sez. ‘Morant is in action.’

“But the signaller was starin’ into the darkness ahead.

“‘What is the matter?’ sez the adjutant, sharply.

“‘Someone’s signallin’ ahead, sir,’ sez the chap.

“Sure enough, miles away on the hills to the right, a little light was winkin’.

“‘What, in the name of fate, is this?’ I heard the officer mutter.

“‘Callin’ Anchester Regiment, sir,’ sez the signaler.

“‘Answer O.K.,’ sez the adjutant, an’ then the lamp in front began talkin’, an’ as it talked the signaller read it:

“‘Anchester Regiment.—Kind regards from Wanderer How’s this for a penny lamp and a biscuit tin? Boers are moving back on your right, not on your left. There’s a road half-way up the mountain. Give my love to Nobby. I am having a fine holiday. I have not joined the Boers—there are too many bosses. Don’t forget the Boers are on your right with two guns. One lot just passed. Give my regards——’

“Then the light went out, an’ the adjutant whistled. Have you ever seen a regiment move out of camp at midnight, leavin’ its equipment behind? Have you ever seen companies of men hurryin’ through darkness without a word?

“Have you ever seen guns dragged by hand over two miles of rough country, so as the horses shouldn't neigh an’ give the show away, or harness jingle? Well, if you have, you know what it was like when we took up our new position on the right. Now the curious thing was that nobody thought of doubtin’ Wanderer’s word. He was a deserter, he’d gone over to the enemy, an’ if he’d have been caught he would have been shot,—but we believed him, the Colonel believed him, an’ changed his whole scheme, on Wanderer’s word.

“At last we was fixed up.

“The storm had passed away. The guns were goin’ on our left quite distinct, an’ the thunder was only a rumble. Then the moon came out an’ we could see the side of the hill quite plainly.

“‘Two thousand yards,’ sez the gunner captain, an’ at two thousand yards our guns opened with common shell. But the Boers were nearer than we thought. A party of horsemen came swervin’ down the hill right on to the guns.

“‘Steady, Anchesters! Fire steadily—don’t get flurried!’ You could hear the Colonel’s voice clear above the yellin’ and chatterin’.

“An’ steady we was.

“Three hundred surrendered, an’ we buried twenty-seven. The Boer commandant was a gentlemanly feller. When it was all over he sat on a box smokin’ a cigar an’ chattin’ with the officers.

“‘Oh, by the way,’ he sez, after a bit, ‘I’m afraid we rather messed up a poor chap of yours.’

“‘Yes?’ sez the adjutant, quietly.

“‘We found him signallin’, an’ when we tried to capture him he turned his rifle on to the commando—killed two men before we could stop him—we shot him down, of course.’

“‘Of course,’ sez the adjutant.

“He turned to the Colonel.

“‘That would be Private Monks, sir,’ he sez; ‘Shall I send a party out to bury him?’

“‘Yes,’ sez the Colonel.

“The adjutant thought a bit.

“‘With military honours, sir?’ he sez.

“‘With military honours, of course,’ sez the Colonel, gravely.”</story>