<story title="MARSHY, DETECTIVE" date="1908">
IT is a fact which my military friends do not dispute, that the average officer does not know the average soldier. If he knows him, it is the result of furtive study; round about deductions; secret overlookings.

A distinguished scientist told me the other day that nothing struck him so much when he was engaged in research work in a London hospital, as the fact that there is an hour in the day when the patients go on duty. For twenty-three hours they have been cheerful souls, exchanging badinage with their fellow sufferers, ripe for amusement, ready and willing to give or take a joke. Then comes the hour of the doctor’s visit—and they become “officially ill,” depressed, saddened, altogether melancholy. So it is in the army.

Brought face to face with his officer, the soldier becomes “officially military.” He plays the part he thinks he is called upon to play, becomes inhumanly automatic. His very expression alters. His face is a mask, betraying no emotion. His speech is monosyllabic, it would need a most penetrating observer to pierce the mystery of the outward shell and reach the soul of this silent man, who stands to attention and says, “Yes, sir,” or “No, sir,” monotonously.

Thus it is that young officers say, in speaking of their men, that they are “very good chaps, but——,” and thus it is also that these very officers return from active service bubbling over with joy at a discovery. That discovery is that there is no “but” in the case, but the British soldier is a splendidly, tip-topping, top-notching, ripping good fellow.

In war time the soldier is his human self without disguise. A man is brought before his company officer.

“You wish to see me, Jones?” says the officer.

“Yes, sir; I want three days’ leave.”

“For what purpose?”

“My sister is very ill.”

Perhaps the officer may know that the man has no sister, and may wax indignant at the unnecessary lie.

But the soldier is acting up to the settled traditions of the army—not in lying, but in offering a conventional excuse for a conventional privilege.

“Sister ill,” “mother ill,” “a funeral,” “a wedding,” these events are regarded as sufficient excuse for three days’ leave. Did the man “know’” his officer, or the officer his man, did mutual confidence exist between them, the soldier would say out plump and plain, “I want three days’ leave because my girl has got a short holiday and I wish to spend the time profitably.”

But it is his “duty face” that he turns to his officer, a machine made, artificial manner, with which he greets him. Beneath its surface very few officers are privileged to reach.

“Nobody likes an officer to be too friendly,” said Smithy, “an’ at the same time nobody cares for an officer that treats a soldier as if he was a new kind of dangerous animal.

“I knew an officer once who was a whale on collectin’ butterflies an’ similar reptiles. After parade he used to go wanderin’ all over the fields lookin’ for a patent new moth that was very rare.

“One mornin’, just before the cold weather started, he told his servant to give his new forty-guinea fur coat an airin’. When the servant shook the coat out he shook out half a bushel of loose fur, an’ the officer nearly went daft.

“‘What the devil’s the meanin’ of this?’ he sez, an’ just then a feeble little moth sort of staggered into the air. The officer caught it, an’ lo! it was his new patent moth!

“Between gettin’ the moth an’ losin’ his coat he was in a horrible state of mind, an’ that’s about the condition of an officer who tries to get too friendly with the men, He gains a little an’ loses a lot.

“Did I ever tell you about Marshy? He was the chap who took up with detectiving, an’ was always goin’ about solvin’ mysteries that nobody wanted solvin’. He could tell by the colour of your eyes how many entries you had on your defaulter sheet, an’ by the colour of your hands, how often you washed yourself. Perfectly marvellous he was. I told you a long time ago about what he did with Captain Brinky—found out how he was selling the plans of the barracks to Germany.

“As Nobby said at the time, it was very serious. Suppose them plans fell into the hands of Germany, the Germans had only to train their guns on our canteens an’ the whole bloomin’ regiment would be decimated. It turned out afterwards that the plans which old Marshy had seen Brinky workin’ at was only the plans of the new meat store, an’ that rather discouraged him for a bit. But bless you, he turned up smilin’ some time after that.

We were stationed at Wynberg at the time, an’ one of the guards was stationed on the outskirts of the town near an orchard. A beautiful orchard full of peaches an’ grapes an’ quinces very nearly ripe. It was in the spring time.

“Now, there was a very mysterious thing about this guard. Chaps who came off it was taken suddenly ill with pains that doubled ’em up. Every day the same thing happened, fellers bein’ carried off to hospital tied in knots, cussin’ the day they ever w’andered into other people’s orchards.

“Marshy had a theory about this mysterious illness.

“They’ve been poisoned,’ he sez to Nobby, very solemn: ‘they’ve got secret enemies who carry little glass phials full of deadly poison.’

“‘The poison they get,’ sez Nobby, ‘has got pips in it.’

“But Marshy was very confident, an’ went up to the hospital to see Bill Clare, who was one of the last chaps to suffer.

“‘Hullo, Bill,’ he sez, ‘I’ve just come to cheer you up—you’re lookin’ bad?’

“‘I am bad,’ sez Bill.

“‘Bill,’ sez Marshy, very earnest, ‘have you got any enemies?’

“‘Hundreds,’ sez Bill, who was one of those chaps bred an’ born with a grievance.

“‘That’s it!’ sez Marshy, ‘that just proves what I’ve said—you’ve been poisoned.’

“‘I know I have,’ groans Bill.

“‘When you’re dead,’ sez Marshy thoughtfully, ‘we’ll have a post-mortem, an’ that’ll settle the question.’

“‘You’re takin’ a liberty,’ sez Bill violently, ‘an’ if I had the use of me hands I’d belt your head off, you cheerful blighter.’

“As Marshy said, if only one of ’em would die, his theory would work out correct, but somehow nobody seemed anxious to prove his words. When Spud Murphy was took bad, Marshy haunted the hospital, enquirin’ about Spud’s temperature till the gentle hospital orderly said that if Marshy didn’t push-off he’d catch him a swipe in the jaw. When Spud came out of hospital he went to look for Marshy.

“‘I’m goin’ to return his call,’ he sez, ‘an’ if any of you chaps happen to want an afternoon’s amusement you can come down to the cricket field an’ see me diagnosin’ Marshy’s disease.’

“That put Marshy off detectiving, an’ it was a long time after the peaches in the orchard were ripe before the black wore out of his eye.

“But nothin’ could keep him quiet for long. He was back at the old business, tracin’ an’ measurin’ footsteps an’ peerin’ into other people’s secrets again.

“He found out why Chancer Saul never had any letters from home owin’ to his havin’ nobody to write to him; he discovered where the quartermaster-sergeant bought his new piano an’ where the money came from—out of the bank. He pried into the mystery of Nobby’s box an’ found a pair of my socks, an’ a smack in the head from Nobby, who happened to come in at that minute, He shaddered Sergeant Toms an’ his young lady an’ found out there was a bull dog in the young lady’s garden, an’ wished he’d known it beforehand. In fact, Marshy went very strong.

“The Brinky affair wot I told you about nearly put Marshy out of business, but it was the case of young Lieutenant Forster that settled him for good an’ all.

“As a rule, a chap in tire army knows very little about his officer, except that he’s got pots of money an’ plays polo.

“He sees him on parade, he marches by his side on manœuvres, an’ sees him sittin’ at a table handin’ out the root-of-all-evil on pay days.

“He sees him sometimes at meals, when the officer happens to be on orderly duty, an’ he hears him say ‘any complaints?’ an’ sees him turn away before anybody can speak.

“What he does or sez; what the other officers think of him, whether he’s a good chap or a bad chap, the soldier doesn’t know. He guesses—but in nine cases out of ten he guesses wrong.

“This young Forster—Lieutenant Forster—was a fresh-coloured, cheerful kind of chap that we all liked. He played football an’ could box, an’ once I saw him ridin’ out in his huntin’ kit.

‘ Nobody knew exactly what happened, but when we was in Wynberg, the officers stopped talkin’ to him. It happened suddenly. If they had to speak to him at all they spoke in a language that nobody understood, but which Marshy said was French, owin’ to young Forster sayin’ ‘Wee wee.’ You could see he was upset. He’d stammer an’ stutter an’ get confused, especially when Umfreville, who’s a devil of a chap for French, spoke.

“Marshy said it was one of the mysteriousest things he’d ever had brought to his notice.

“‘Anyone can tell what it means,’ he sez. ‘Young Forster’s been an’ done somethin’ bad, an’ the officers won’t speak to him unless they can swear at him, an’ that’s why they talk in French.’

“So Marshy started to find out what Forster had been doin’. After two days pryin’ he came to Nobby highly excited.

“‘I’ve discovered it!’ he sez.

“‘I’ll bet you have,’ sez Nobby, admiringly.

“‘I shaddered him last night,’ sez Marshy. ‘He went right through the village into the country. I shaddered him till we came to the woods near Constantia, an’ in he goes an’ me after. He started talkin’ an’ carryin’ on to hisself—ravin’ I call it, an’ a feller of my experience could see that his conscience was bitin’ him.’

“‘I watched him for an hour, an’ all the time he was talkin’—just as though someone was there. I looked an’ looked, but I couldn’t see anybody, an’ I got as near as I could, but all I could hear was ‘Wossy Lair, Wossy La Plume! Wossy Cray On, Dermont Pair.’

“‘It was a sort of back slang, an’ I couldn’t understand it.’

“‘My theory is,’ sez Marshy, very impressive, ‘that he’s pinched something, an’ he’s got a pal a-hidin’ in the wood.’

“Well, it turned out afterwards that young Forster was studyin’ for some language examination—French it was—but bein’ an easy goin’ sort of young feller, an’ much preferin’ to spend his evenin’s playin’ bridge, he got a bit backward until the officers made up a plan only to speak to him in French.

“Billy Curtis, who’s a waiter in the officer’s mess, sez it was a bit of lark at dinner, because young Forster had to scratch up his French before he could get anything to eat. When he asked anybody to pass the mustard they pretended they didn’t understand him till he asked for it in French. So if Marshy had started enquirin’ in the proper quarters he’d have found out all he wanted to know in two ticks, but that wasn’t Marshy’s way.

“It wasn’t the fact that he was makin’ a silly ass of hisself that kiboshed Marshy, but something more serious an’ unnatural.

“Marshy was crowded with the notion that Lieutenant Forster had a pal hidden in the woods.

“One day he had a talk with Nobby.

“‘I’ve been shadderin’ Forster,” he sez, ‘an’ I’m goin’ to search his quarters to-night.’

“‘Take my tip an’ don’t,’ sez Nobby, who was a bit alarmed, ‘an’ if you do, don’t say that you told me you was goin’ to do it.’

“I think Nobby might have persuaded him to drop his fat-headed idea, only that afternoon there was a garrison call.

“Not far from Wynberg is a big convict settlement at a place called Constantia, an’ we got the news that a feller named Magee had escaped. This here Magee was a well-known chap at the Cape—you must have read ‘about him.

“He used to meet fellers who had just come out from England, smack ’em on the back, an’ give ’em the hullo-old-feller-fancy-meetin’-you shake, an’ the come-an’-have-a-drink pass, an’ when they was fairly hypnotised he’d borrer a hundred pounds from ’em just to show his confidence in ’em. He got one or two doses of imprison­ment, an’ then he struck up against a bad judge who’d got theories about short sentences bein’ no good for the risin’ generation, an’ this judge sent him down for five years.

“Magee had done three months when he decided to leave. He left early one mornin’, an’ that afternoon there were two battalions of infantry picketin’ the country on the lookout for Mr. Magee. Seven companies of ours was out, and Marshy, who happened to be in the company stayin’ behind, thought the whole bloomin’ thing was got up to give him the chance he wanted. He waited till it was dark, an’ then he sneaked across to the officers’ quarters. Lieutenant Forster had a bungalow at the far end of the lines. He shared it with another young officer, an’ Marshy’s luck bein’ in, these two chaps was both on duty somewhere in the neighbourhood of Constantia.

“Marshy sneaked round the bungalow, tryin’ the doors an’ winders, an’ at last he found a winder that was open. He waited till he was sure there was no one about, then he nipped through the winder an’ found hisself in Lieutenant’ Forster’s bath-room. It was quite dark, an’ Marshy didn’t dare to strike a light, but after failin’ over a pail an’ bangin’ his head against the wall, he reached the officer’s bedroom. Marshy’s great point is footprints an’ secret drawers. He’d got an idea that all criminals write confessions an’ leave ’em in secret drawers where nobody could find ’em, except detectives. First thing he did was to close the shutters an’ pull across the curtains of the winders, then he started to search for damnin’ evidence with a candle he’d brought with him

“There was a little desk in one comer of the room with lots of papers. Marshy read a few. Some of ’em began: ‘Dear sir, unless our account is paid in three days we shall be reluctantly compelled——’; another commenced, ‘Dear sir, the enclosed account is long overdue, an’ as we are makin’ up our books for the half-year, we shall be glad——.’

“But there was nothin’ that Marshy could find that gave Mr. Forster away.

“He was just turnin’ over a heap of letters when he heard a cough behind him, an’ his heart went down into his boots.

“‘Beg pardon, sir,’ he stammered, an’ turned round with his knees shakin’.

“The chap that stood behind him was a tall chap, nicely dressed in a yaller suit that didn’t fit him, an’ ornamented all over with big black arrers. Marshy gasped—but the feller only smiled an’ started polishin’ the barrel of a revolver he had in his hand on the sleeve of his coat.

“‘Good-evenin’,’ he sez, as calm an’ polite as possible, ‘are you the servant of the officer who owns this bungalow?’

“‘No, sir,’ sez Marshy.

“‘Don’t say, sir,’ sez the chap, ‘I’m the escaped convict that your chaps are lookin’ for.’

“‘Oh, you are, are you?’ sez Marshy, gettin’ back a bit of his nerve.

“‘Yes, I am, am I,’ sez the chap.

“Marshy made up his mind—you can understand his feelin’s at the prospec’ of arrestin’ an escaped convict.

“‘Well,’ sez Marshy, as bold as brass, ‘I’ll trouble you to come along with me.’

“The chap shook his head.

“‘Not so,’ he sez, ‘but far otherwise. I have no partic’lar desire,’ he sez, thoughtfully, ‘of returning to Tokai. For one thing the work’s too hard, an’ for another thing, the food’s not nice, an’ the sleepin’ accommodation is very horrid. I have decided to leave the country.’

“Marshy sez he swung his revolver around carelessly. “‘The pistol,’ sez the chap,’ belongs to the officer who owns this charmin’ bungalow. So do the cartridges,’ he sez. ‘I thought I might be able to borrer some civilian clothes to get away in, but they’re locked up, an’ I can’t break open the box without makin’ too much noise.’

“Marshy was tryin’ to think of a way of attracting the guard.

“‘Of course,’ sez the chap, very significantly, ‘if I have to shoot you, that’ll make a noise, but I’ve got to chance that.’

“‘Certainly,’ sez Marshy, feebly.

“‘At the same time,’ sez the convict, ‘there won’t be no necessity to shoot, because you’re goin’ to behave like a little gentleman.’

“‘Certainly,’ sez Marshy, rather weakly.

“‘First of all,’ the convict chap went on, ‘I see you are dressed for walkin’ out. Take off your clothes.’

“‘Hold hard!’ sez Marshy, ‘let’s argue this point—’

“‘I’ll argue with you as you undress,’ sez the chap; ‘look slippy.’

Bit by bit he took Marshy’s clothes from him.

“‘Now your trousis,’ sez the chap. ‘Thanks,’ he sez, as Marshy chucked them over.

“It didn’t take the convict two minutes to get out of his things, an’ in another minute he was dressed in Marshy’s kit.

“‘I’d make a fine soldier,’ he sez, regretful. ‘What a pity I didn’t go into the army. Now, get into my things.’

“‘Look here,’ sez Marshy.

“‘I’m lookin’,’ sez the convict; ‘get on with it.’

“So pore old Marshy had to rig himself up like a convict.

“‘Now, sit down it that chair,’ sez the convict, ‘and don’t move whilst I tie you up.’

“With two or three straps from the officer’s equipment he trussed old Marshy so that he couldn’t move. Then he tied a towel round his mouth so that he couldn’t yell.

“Then the convict chap lit one of the officer’s cigars, an’ stuck Marshy’s walkin’ stick under his arm.

“‘Good-bye,’ he sez, ‘I’m sorry to take advantage of a feller burglar, but it had to be done.’

“‘I’m not a burglar,’ sez Marshy, very muffled. ‘ I’m a detective,’ he sez.

“‘A what?’

“‘A detective,’ sez pore ole Marshy. ‘I was lookin’ for somethin’.’

“‘What you was lookin’ for,’ sez the convict, as he put the light out, ‘was Trouble—an’ you’ve found it. Good-night.’”</story>