<story title="THE FOOTBALL MATCH" date="1908">
I DO not deny that the Wigshires give themselves airs. They refer to themselves modestly as the “Old and bold, ever fighting, never-failing 175th.” This, to the intense indignation of the rest of the army, and more especially to the 5th Northumberland Fusiliers, from whom they have stolen the nickname.

The Wigshires have a very bad reputation in the Army. They are called “The Cuckoos,” partly because they calmly appropriate the treasured traditions of others, and partly because—but we need not discuss the other reason, which is probably untrue. From what I know of the Wigshire Regiment, it is a very sound, hard-marching, straight-fighting corps, and its amiable weakness may well be overlooked in the light of its manifest qualities, but the rest of the Army would not share my views.

As you know, the “honours” of a regiment are the names of the battles in which it has fought, and which are inscribed on its colours. Some regiments have thirty or so, and are vastly puffed up in consequence. The Rifle Brigade has forty (I speak from memory), but has no colours to put them on. The Anchesters have twenty-three—but the Wigshires have only four, and this is a very sore point with the regiment.

When they marched into North Camp in ’94, some wag of the Anchesters displayed a sheet from the barrack-room window on which was inscribed,

Though Shalt Not Kill

and the subtle, if irreverent, jibe is remembered to this day.

Therefore, I do not blame the childless Wigshires if they insist upon adopting the children of more favoured corps.

I remember that when they were stationed in Malta, they called themselves “The Holy Boys,” and the Norfolk Regiment in far-off Belgaum was blissfully unconscious of the blatant plagiarism. Then at Wynberg, taking a mean advantage of the absence of the 17th Lancers, they took the style of the “Death or Glory Boys.”

One very bad mistake they made, and that was at Dover, four years ago, when they blossomed forth as “The Die-Hards.” Now the regiment entitled to that distinction is the Middlesex Regiment, and it happened that the Middlesex were stationed at Chatham; and it was the worst of bad luck that the Middlesex and the Wigshires should have been brigaded together for the autumn manœuvres.

For it came to pass that, learning of the outrageous liberty taken by the Wigshires, the Middlesex descended upon them one night, and beat, belted, and kicked them into a realisation of their sinfulness.

None-the-less the Wigshires turned up nothing daunted next day, and instantly and unblushingly converted to their own use the style and title of “The Old Guard.”

“What always annoyed us about the Wigshires,” explained Private Smithy, “was the fact that they got an idea that they was the most sportin’ regiment in the Army. They once got in the final for the Army Cup. Nobody knows how it happened, unless they got in when nobody was lookin’.

“They were beat by 19 goals to nothin’, but that didn’t upset ’em. They gave out that they was the undefeated champion footballers of the Army. Whilst they was stationed at home this didn’t matter very much, because everybody knew the Wigshire class an’ only larfed, but when they got abroad, it became serious, especially when they came to Wynberg an’ used to stand round our football field, passin’ sarcastic remarks about our play.

“One afternoon we had a company match, ‘H’ against ‘B.’ It was a walk-over for ‘B,’ because Nobby was playin’ in hobnailed boots.

“I was standin’ by, watchin’ the match. There was a bit of an interval whilst the doctor was givin’ artificial restitution to Toby Martin, wot Nobby happened to tread on, an’ one of the Wigshires, who was standin’ by, sez to me:

“‘What are your chaps playin’? ’

“‘Football!’ I sez.

“‘Oh!’ he sez, very polite, ‘I thought you was preparin’ for the military tournament.’

“When Nobby came off the field, this chap goes up to him an’ sez:

“‘Are you the captain of this team?’

“‘I am,’ sez Nobby.

“‘Well,’ sez the chap (whose name was Mudley), ‘any time you’d like to see how football’s played, you can come over to our field an’ watch our regimental team!’

“‘Thanks,’ sez Nobby, very politely, ‘I’ll put on an old suit that won’t get soiled by walkin’ through your lines, an’ look you up.’

“‘Our lines are as clean as yours,’ sez the chap, firin’ up.

“‘Not so clean as they was before you came,’ sez Nobby, nicely.

“‘We can teach you somethin’ about football, any­way,’ sez the Wigshire feller.

“‘I shouldn’t wonder,’ Nobby sez, ‘regiments that never do  any fightin’ have plenty of time to learn football.’

“‘We was in the final for the Army Cup,’ sez the Wigshire man, swellin’ with pride.

“‘So I’m told,’ sez Nobby, ‘though I’ve never believed it.’

“‘Why, it was in all the papers!’ sez young Wigshire, very indignant.

“Nobby shook his head.

“‘Don’t you believe everythin’ you read in the papers,’ he sez.

“The upshot of this was that we got a challenge from the Wigshires that same night.

“It was brought into the canteen, an’ posted up.

“The Wigshires offered to play the best team we could get together for anything we liked, an’ Nobby accepted the challenge.

“There was a bit of a row afterwards because Nobby wasn’t the captain of the regimental team by any manner of means, but he managed to smooth down Sergeant Pike, who’s the real captain, an’ started to get the team together.

“The Anchesters have got a lot of chaps who can play good football, an’ Nobby persuaded most of ’em to come into the team; an’ there were some artillery fellers....

“‘It’s a walk-over for us,’ sez Nobby. ‘Smithy, stroll over to the Wigshire’s canteen an’ see if you can find anybody who bets.’ So me an’ Yatesey turned up at the Wigshire’s bar an’ took all the bets that was goin’.

“The match was to be played on a Saturday, an’ on the Friday night Nobby came to see me in a state of agitation.

“‘Smithy,’ he sez, ‘d’ye know when I asked the Wigshire feller if they minded us playin’ an outsider? ’

“‘Yes,’ I sez.

“‘They sez they didn’t; so I got two chaps of the R.A., an’ the Wigshires sez they’d get in a chap or two, as well.’

“‘Yes,’ I sez.

“‘Well,’ sez Nobby, ‘they’ve got Baggs, the civilian goalkeeper of the Capetown club, an’ Hiker, the centre-forward of the Caledonians, an’ they’ve borrered the half-back chap from the Rondebosch team—in fact, the whole bloomin’ team’s made up of African league players!’

“It didn’t want much explainin’ after that why the Wigshires come over in their thousands that night tryin’ to get bets about the match. Nobby met the captain from the other side.

“‘What about a referee?’ sez Nobby.

“‘How would our Sergeant-major do?’ sez the Wigshire feller.

“‘Not at all,’ sez Nobby, ‘how about our Sergeant-major?’

“‘Let’s keep the game as honest as we can,’ sez the Wigshire man, earnestly. ‘I’ve been thinkin’ about the referee: now we don’t want a chap who will favour us, an’ you don’t want a chap who will favour you——’

“‘Speak for yourself,’ sez Nobby, ‘never mind about what we want.’

“‘I’ve been talkin’ to our team——’

“Nobby larfed sarcastic.

“‘Our team,’ sez the Wigshire captain, ‘thinks that for the honour of the old corps, the Ever Fightin’, Never Failin’——’

“‘Don’t try that game on with me,’ sez Nobby, ‘your team! Why, they’re bloomin’ civilians! Fat lot they care about the honour of the Wigs—an’ anyway, there ain’t enough honour to go round. Let’s settle the referee—how would I do?’

“This staggered the Wigshire chap so that he couldn’t speak for a minute or two.

“‘You?’ he gasps.

“‘Me,’ sez Nobby, ‘I can’t play, I’ve sprained me knee.’

“After the Wigshire chap had said where he’d see hisself before he let Nobby referee, an’ where he’d see Nobby, an’ the ’ole of the Anchester Regiment, Nobby struck in:

“‘When you’ve finished arskin’ someone to take away your eyesight,’ he sez, very severe, ‘perhaps you’ll listen to reason. Suppose I’m referee. I can’t favour our side, can I? Wouldn’t everybody say “Nobby Clark’s workin’ it for the Anchesters?” It stands to reason that if I’m referee the Wigshires’ll have a better show than if you got a chap from another regiment.’

“This seemed to strike the Wigshire man as bein’ very sensible. It took him a long time to convince the other Wigshire chaps, because he couldn’t talk as glib as Nobby.

“At first they wouldn’t hear of it, then they wanted to appoint one of their own men, on the same lines—but Nobby said he wouldn’t put temptation in any man’s way.

“Our own fellows was beside theirselves with joy when Nobby was appointed referee.

“‘It’s a pinch for us,’ sez Spud Murphy, ‘with you refereein’ an’ ’

“‘Why?’ sez Nobby.

“‘Because,’ sez Spud, ‘we’ll be able to——’

“‘You won’t be able to do anythin’,’ sez Nobby, shortly.

“‘When I’m a referee I’m a referee—don’t let that silly idea of yours get about.’

“The mornin’ of the match came: it was Saturday, an’ Nobby had got permission for the team to be excused parade. Umfreville, the adjutant, sent for Nobby.

“‘What is this match you’re playing?’ he sez, so Nobby explained.

“The Adjutant looks straight in Nobby’s eye.

“‘Some of the officers were talking about going down to the field to see it,’ he sez.

“Nobby looked uncomfortable.

“‘I’d rather they didn’t, sir,’ he sez.

“‘Why?’ sez the Adjutant.

“‘Well, sir,’ sez Nobby slowly, ‘there’ll be a lot of rough play, an’ pop’lar feelin’ may run high.’

“‘Um,’ sez the Adjutant, suspicious, ‘who’s the referee?’

“‘Me, sir,’ sez Nobby, modestly.

“‘Thank you,’ sez the Adjutant, prompt.

“There were no officers present that afternoon, an’ very few non-coms.

“Nobby turned up in a beautiful pair of knickers that he borrered from a chap, an’ he had one of the loudest whistles he could buy.

“When he went on to the field, blowin’ his whistle to let everybody know he was there, he got one of the biggest receptions I’ve ever seen a referee get. The Wigshire fellers cheered him because he was goin’ to do the fair thing to them, an’ our fellers cheered him because they thought he was goin’ to do the fair thing to us, an’ as little Jerry Jordan said, ‘bar a miracle we couldn’t be beat.’ I don’t know too much about football. I’ve watched it, an’ played it, an’ read about it, but I don’t know the delicate touches like Nobby does.

“First thing Nobby did was to make the Wigshire chaps change their goalkeeper.

“The Wigshires was a bit surprised, an’ especially the professional fellers who were playin’, but Nobby pointed out that by order of the Army Council no chap over five foot four was allowed to keep goal, and the civilian professionals took it all in good part.

“Then the game commenced.

“The Wigshires took the ball straight up to our goal, an’ my heart went up into my mouth.

Suddenly, Nobby’s whistle blew.

“‘What’s up?’ sez the Wigshire captain, very wrathful.

“‘Foul,’ sez Nobby; ‘foul against the Wigshires.’

“‘Why?’ sez the Wigshire feller.

“‘Never mind why,’ sez Nobby, an’ the foul had to be allowed. To show how impartial Nobby was, soon after that he gave a foul against the Anchesters.

“It’s true, the ball was right up the other end of the field, an’ there was not any danger to us from a penalty, but Nobby gave it, an’ this made the Wigshire people more easy in their minds.

“They got hold of the ball again, an’ carried it like lightnin’ into our country. Then there was a wild an’ desperate mix-up with Nobby in the middle of it, blowin’ his whistle.

“‘What’s the matter now?’ shouts the Wigshire chap.

“‘Offside!’ sez Nobby.

“‘It’s not offside,’ yells the Wig.

“‘Then it’s hands,’ sez Nobby, calmly; ‘it’s the same thing.’

“Somehow our chaps couldn’t keep the ball away from our goal try as hard as they could, an’ the Wigshires would have scored only Nobby happened to get in the way of the ball once or twice.

“Just before half-time the Wigshire captain got a beautiful shot, an’ took it. He missed the ball an’ went sprawlin’.

“To this day,” asserted Smithy, solemnly, “nobody knows the truth about that accident. Some say Nobby tripped him up, an’ others say he fell against him by accident. Anyway the Wigshires yelled like blazes, an’ one of the professionals sez Nobby was a disgrace to the umpirin’ business.

“At half-time the game stood at ‘love-all,’ an’ Nobby was loudly cheered by our chaps in consequence.

“The Wigshire captain had a few words to say to Nobby.

“‘I thought you was a gentleman,’ he sez, bitterly.

“‘Whatever made you think that?’ sez Nobby, an’ that floored the Wig.

“The finest player on the other side was a chap called Shaw, but Nobby soon settled him in the second half. Just as the Wigs was pushin’ the ball towards our goal—they did this all the afternoon—Nobby’s whistle blew.

“‘Shaw,’ he sez, very stern, ‘that’s the second time I’ve had to warn you. If it occurs again I shall order you off this field.’

“‘What have I done?’ sez poor Shaw.

“‘Never mind,’ sez Nobby, an’ blew his whistle.

“By some accident our chaps got hold of the ball, an’ rushed it down to the Wigs’ goal, an’ kept it at that end for five minutes. All this time Nobby’s whistle didn’t blow once, not even when the Wigshires asked for ‘offside.’

“A good many of our fellers think Nobby lost a big chance by not givin’ a penalty kick or so, but Nobby said he did think of it, but couldn’t trust any of our fellers to kick straight enough.

“When Spud Murphy took a runnin’ kick at the Wigshire captain an’ the Wigshires yelled ‘foul!’ some­body shouted from their side, ‘Have you lost your whistle?’ but Nobby took no notice, an’ when the ball came down to the Anchester end again he jolly soon showed ’em that the whistle was in good order.

“That’s where he warned Shaw off the field an’ cautioned Hackitt, an’ gave three fouls against the Wigs, all in about three minutes.

“I don’t know any other regiment that Nobby would have dared take such liberties with.

“What I might call the climax of the game came just before the close of play. Nobby had given a penalty kick against the Wigs, an’ all the fellers were clusterin’ as thick as bees round the Wigs’ goal.

“Nobby’s whistle blew, an’ the ball fell amongst ’em. You couldn’t see the ball, only a lot of strugglin’ an fightin’ chaps in football jerseys, and Nobby dived right in amongst ’em.

“He disappeared, but by an’ bye, the crowd fell apart, an’ the ball came flyin’ out, smack! right into the Wigs’ goal!

“Our fellers nearly went mad with delight. You couldn’t hear anything for the cheerin’ an’ shoutin’: you couldn’t have heard Nobby’s whistle if he’d been blowin’ it. As a matter of fact, he was havin’ a terrible argument with the Wigs’ captain.

“‘Who shot that goal?’ sez the Wig, fiercely.

“‘Spud Murphy,’ sez Nobby.

“‘You’re a liar,’ sez the Wig, as wild as wild. ‘You shot that goal, you big-footed thief.’

“‘As a referee,’ sez Nobby——

“‘Never mind about referee,’ sez the Wig captain, almost tearin’ his hair. ‘As man to man I tell you you’re a liar. I see you do it, you robber. I see you push aside “Corfy” Jackson an’ kick it.’

“‘If, in the excitement of the moment,’ sez Nobby, ‘I happened to touch the ball—an’ I don’t believe I did—I apologise. I see somethin’ on the ground that looked big an’ round an’ empty an’ I kicked it. But I was under the impression at the time that it was your head.’

“The Wigs got even, because they sent an account of the match to the ‘Cape Times.’ I’ve got the bit about it to this day. Here it is:—

“‘An interesting match was played yesterday between a thirteen of the Royal East Wigshires (the Fighting Pompadours) and fourteen picked men of the Anchesters. The novices of the Anchesters played as well as possible, but stood little chance against the veterans of Wigshire. Private Clark scored the only goal of the afternoon. The game was played without a referee.’”</story>