<story title="THE FIGHT" date="1908">
THE learned Erasmus, if we accept Udall’s transla­tion literally, created an apothegm to the effect “That same man that runnith awaie, mai again fight an other daie.” I state the truth when I affirm that the Anchester Regiment wots little of Erasmus the Beloved, that great scholar, though with this particular apothegm they are familiar enough, and even Smithy, who is no whale at the science of Inductive Logic, pulverised the philosopher’s argument in a few well-chosen words.

“It’s not worth two penn’oth of gin,” he said, “because what’s the sense of runnin’ away from a fight, if there’s another fight waitin’ round the corner for you? Might as well get it over at once.”

“I’ve never been in a fight yet, though,” confessed Smithy, thoughtfully, “where I didn’t want to run—but I’ve never had the pluck. It takes more courage to bolt than lots of people think. It’s much easier to lie down flat on your chest an’ imagine what a horrid mess a jagged bit of iron would make, if it hit you fair in the stomach, than it is to get up an’ start runnin’. It’s easier to go forward than go backward, because it’s a slower job an’ ever so much more satisfactory. You’ve got cover, for one thing, which is what you wouldn’t have if you was tryin’ to beat Walker’s record in the direction of Home an’ Mother. An’ then it’s six to four you’ll get in amongst the enemy, sooner or later, with the bayonet, an’ have a chance of puttin’ in some fancy fightin’.

“To most chaps fightin’ is easier than runnin’. If it’s even money against a feller bein’ a John L. Sullivan in warfare, it’s a hundred to one against him bein’ a champion sprinter, an’ Pretty Polly at six stone can’t beat a bullet for speed.

“I’ve only known the runaway game pay once, an’ then it didn’t really pay, an’ that was when Chatty Wilson was challenged by Private Augustus Toms. Gustus was one of those fellers who disgraced hisself by joinin’ the Army. In case you didn’t know it, or forget it, he used to tell you so every day. Since he left his country-seat in the Brixton-road an’ took the shillin’, his family disowned him. His Pa was a city merchant, an’ his sisters was young ladies at the same shop, an’ naturally when Gustus said he wasn’t goin’ to foller in his father’s footsteps an’ say, ‘What can we do for you to-day, miss—underwear?—Mr. Riggs, forward!’ the old man got the needle an’ cut Gustus out of his will.

“As Gustus said, it meant a clear loss of twenty pound to him, but he up an’ joined the Army.

“If you’ve got any broodin’ to do, Gibraltar’s the place to do it. With the exception that it keeps perfectly still an’ steady, in the worst kind of weather, it’s a ship an’ a prison an’ the private ground of a lunatic asylum all combined. There’s nothing to do, an’ no walks to go. Once you’ve been out to Europa Point an’ climbed up to the Moorish Castle an’ loafed round the Alameda Gardens listenin’ to the band, you’ve done Gibraltar, an’ there’s nothin’ else to do but to sit down an’ wonder why you wanted to go abroad.

“I’m not sayin’ that Gustus was a brooder; as a matter of fact, he had his mind, in a manner of speakin’ fully occupied. For he was a smart young feller, an’ very soon saw that the only way to get out of doin’ hard work in the Army is to go in for promotion, an’ he was workin’ day an’ night for the dog’s leg.* But he used to find time to tell us of his adventures, an’ from what he said he was a bit of a dog in his civilian days.

* The Lance-Corporal’s chevron.

“‘I’ve been chucked out of the Empire,’ he sez, ‘three times; the last time it took four men an’ a police­man to get me out.’

“‘What a terror you must have been,’ sez Nobby, very awe-struck.

“‘I was one of the finest boxers in Brixton—at eight stone,’ sez Gustus. ‘I once had a fight with a cabman, an’ he was in hospital for nine weeks.’

“‘Delirium tremens?’ asks Nobby.

* * * * *

“My experience is,” Smithy reflected, “that in the Army, just like anywhere else, people take you at your own value, an’ if you give out that you’re a fightin’ man, an’ say it often enough, chaps won’t interfere with you, because although you’re probably pullin’ their legs, it might cost a black eye to find out you’re speakin’ the truth—an’ nobody wants to buy information.

“So in his spare time Gustus worked up quite a reputation, what with his tales of what he used to do an’ his fightin’, an’ he might have been one of the popular heroes of the regiment, if Chatty Wilson hadn’t come to us from the 1st Battalion.

“I say ‘might’ because it’s two chances to one that Nobby would have run foul of him sooner or later, an’ Nobby’s got no respect for reputations.

“Chatty was one of them fattish chaps you some­times see. If he was in civilian clothes you wouldn’t be able to tell whether he was the Terrible Greek or a retired publican. I got the first news about him from Nobby.

“‘Have you seen this feller Wilson?’ he sez. ‘He’s down in the canteen tellin’ the chaps how he saved the life of Lord Dewberry’s beautiful daughter when she was attacked by wild Indians in something—boco. I can see Gustus takin’ a back seat.’

“Chatty was one of them men who’ve done everything. He was one of the most remarkable chaps in the world—an’ wasn’t above ownin’ up to it. He used to stand in the canteen with all the other chaps sittin’ round with their mouths wide open drinkin’ down all the lies he told ’em, an’ askin’ for more, an’ Gustus’s face was a picture.

“‘I remember,’ sez Chatty, very solemn, ‘when I was second mate of the Inky Belle—bound from Liverpool to Australia. We was goin’ through the Suez Canal an’ a storm was ragin’. All the stairs of the ship was battered down, an’ the sailors was a-rollin’ about the floor some­thing awful. I was standin’ on the bridge by the wheel, when suddenly the chap at the masthead shouts out, “Rocks ahead!” We had forty thousan’ bags of dyna­mite stowed away in the hold, an’ I knew if we ran against a rock there would be an explosion. What did I do?’

“‘Woke up?’ suggested Nobby.

“‘What did I do?’ sez Chatty. ‘The waves was runnin’ mountains high, an’ I waited till I saw a big one comin’ up behind. Then I went ahead full speed. The wave caught us an’ lifted us about as high as Mount Misery. We went clean over the rock without touching it! I remember another time when I was lying at——’

“‘That don’t take much recollecting,’ sez Nobby, ‘for I don’t suppose there’s a place in the world where you haven’t lied at or lied about.’

“Gustus, who’d stood as much as was humanly possible, pulled Chatty up short.

“‘Where was this?’ he sez.

“‘In the Suez Canal,’ sez Chatty.

“‘There ain’t no rocks an’ there ain’t no storms in the Suez Canal,’ sez Gustus.

“‘Have you ever been there?’ sez Chatty.

“‘No—but I’ve got a geography——’

“‘Here’s a feller,’ sez Chatty, fiercely, ‘who as good as calls me a liar on the strength of a geography book.’

“That was only the beginnin’ of the feud. After this Gustus turned up regularly at the canteen when Chatty was talkin’. It was always a question of geography. First of all, Gustus contradicted Chatty about Bon-us-Airs. Chatty said it was in South Africa, an’ told a yarn how he was nearly ate by cannibals there.

“‘They’re a savage, blood-thirsty tribe called the Walloo-Walloos,’ sez Chatty. ‘I ’appened to be strollin’ through the island——’

“‘You said it was in South Africa just now,’ sneered Gustus.

“‘It’s a little island near South Africa,’ sez Chatty.

“‘You’re a liar,’ sez Gustus.

“‘Have you been there?’ sez Chatty.

“‘No,’ sez Gustus, ‘but I’ve got a map.’

“‘A map!’ sez Chatty, with a bitter larf. ‘Why, I helped to draw that map!’

“‘That settles the bloomin’ map,’ sez Nobby.

“The feud got fiercer and fiercer. Whenever Chatty stood up to tell a yarn, Gustus was there to contradict him. It was like an Atheist meetin’ in Hyde Park. There wasn’t a part of the world Chatty hadn’t been to, an’ Nobby, who kept count of the three years Chatty had served before the mast, an’ the two years he had been prospectin’ gold in Siberia, an’ the twelve months he had been huntin’ bears in the Rocky Mountains, reckoned up Chatty’s age to be 107.

“But Chatty’s best stories was about his fights. He told ’em so seriously that I believed ’em, an’ the other chaps believed ’em—all except Nobby, who never believed anything unless he read it in the newspapers. Gustus took the scrappin’ stories very much to heart—you see, Chatty was, in a manner of speakin’, poachin’ on his preserves.

“‘The best fight I ever had was with a chap named Fitzsimmons,’ sez Chatty, modestly, “Bob, his name was, an’ in America he was a bit of a champion. I ’appened to be stayin’ in Monty Vidy-oh——’

“‘Where’s that?’ sez Gustus.

“‘When you leave Noo York, you turn to the left an’ it’s the first town on the right,’ sez Chatty, quite calm, an’ that staggered Gustus.

“‘I was havin’ a glass of beer in one of the public-houses in the High-street, when a chap came out of the bar-parlour and sez, “Hello, Chatty——”’

“‘Yah,’ sez Gustus, very wild; ‘there ain’t any High-street in Monte Video—it stands to reason. It’s a Spanish town. What’s Spanish for High-street?’

“‘Uptopo Streetarato,’ sez Chatty quick, an’ was goin’ on when Gustus stopped him.

“‘Chatty,’ he sez, ‘you never was in Monte Video; you never was the captain of a ship; you never shot lions in Kentucky, or was ate by cannibals in Bone-us-Airs. You never fought Bob Fitzsimmons or Corbett—you’re a liar first an’ last, an’ if I wasn’t goin’ to be a corporal I’d bite your ear off.’

“Chatty began to take his coat off slowly.

“‘You’ve brought this on yourself,’ he sez, ‘ an’ all because you’ve got a cheap little geography book an’ think you know better than people of experience—like me an’ Nobby——’

“‘Don’t ask me to father your adventures,’ sez Nobby.

“‘I’m not goin’ to hurt you very much,’ sez Chatty rollin’ up his sleeves. ‘I’ll give you a punch like I gave to Gunner Moir when we was stationed together at Aldershot—an’ one of the taps I dropped on to young Josephs when we fought ten roun’s at Wonderland. You won’t feel it,’ he sez, takin’ off his braces; ‘you’ll be unconscious.’

“Gustus was very pale, an’ so was Chatty—in fact, Chatty was the palest.

“‘Don’t mind me,’ he sez to Nobby; ‘my teeth always chatter when I start fightin.’ I once killed a navvy in Somerstown, an’ I’m always afraid of what’s goin’ to happen. I remember when I knocked out Bill Anderson, of Walworth——’

“‘Get on with it,’ sez Nobby, impatient; ‘we’ll listen to the history of your bloomin’ life another time.’

“Gustus was takin’ off his coat, an’ his knees was tremblin’, too.

“‘This reminds me,’ he sez, in a shaky voice, ‘of when I put Harry Bagg to sleep in fourteen rounds at the Polytechnic—pore old Harry, he never got over it.’

“‘Hurry up,’ sez Nobby, helpin’ him off with his coat; ‘you’ll have the canteen sergeant here in five minutes.’

“‘Ain’t he here?’ sez Chatty, very pale.

“‘No,’ sez Nobby.

“‘Then,’ sez Chatty, determined, ‘I’m not goin’ to get him into trouble—I’ll fight out of barracks to-morrer.’

“We tried our best to persuade him to get it over, but he wouldn’t hear of it an’ Gustus sort of backed him up.

“‘The sergeant’s got a wife an’ family,’ he sez firmly, ‘suppose I kill this putty-faced blighter? What’s the first question they’ll ask at orderly room? “Where was the canteen sergeant?”’

“An’ he put on his coat.

“‘Quite right,’ sez Chatty, ‘one of the first questions the doctor will ask when he sees this linen draper will be: “Where did this pore feller meet with his shockin’ injuries.”’

“It was arranged that the fight should come off the next day in a quiet place up the Mount, behind South Barracks—but it didn’t. At the last minute Chatty wouldn’t fight unless a purse or a stake was put up.

“‘I’m a professional fighter,’ he sez, ‘an’ if it got about I was scrappin’ for love, I should lose me license.’

“A lot of us chaps got together and put up a purse of ten pesetas, but then Gustus jibbed.

“‘I’m not goin’ to lose my amateur standin’,’ he sez, ‘by fightin’ for a purse—if it leaked out at the Polytechnic that I was fightin’ for money, I’d lose my amateur certificate—what I’ve got at home in a gold frame.’

“Then we arranged that the purse was only for Chatty, but they both said that wasn’t fair.

“For one reason an’ another the fight hung fire for a fortnight, an’ just as we’d got it fixed up Chatty said he wouldn’t fight without four ounce gloves an’ Gustus wanted ten ounce gloves.

“‘I always wear four ounce gloves,’ sez Chatty, ‘that time when I killed a chap I was wearin’ ten ounce gloves an’ I’ve never——’

“‘Look here!’ sez Nobby, very exasperated, ‘me an’ Smithy, an’ a few other sportsmen have done our dabdest to bring you two champions together—are you goin’ to fight or ain’t you?’

“‘There’s plenty of time,’ sez Chatty, ‘I ought to go into trainin’ for a month: When I fought young Jennings, of Oldham——’

“‘Half-a-mo,’ sez Nobby, ‘don’t let’s go into your bloomin’ dream-fights: Are you an’ Gustus goin’ to scrap?’

“‘As soon as the articles are signed,’ sez Chatty.

“‘I see what you mean,’ sez Nobby, with one of those nasty glitters in his eye. ‘I take your meanin’ exactly.’

“That night, when we was standing in the canteen talkin’ about the fight, an’ sayin’ what a national calamity it would be if it didn’t come off, Spud Murphy came rush in’ in excitedly.

“‘They’ve had their fight!’ he sez.

“We couldn’t believe our ears.

“‘They’ve just brought Chatty in,’ sez Spud agitatedly, ‘two artillery chaps leadin’ him—he can only see out of one eye.’

“‘What about Gustus?’ I sez.

“‘He’s stayin’ behind to find two of his teeth wot he’s lost,’ sez Spud.

“‘Run an’ tell Nobby,’ sez somebody, an’ at that minute in come Gustus lookin’ as if he’d been run over.

“He walked up to the counter without a word an’ ordered a pint of beer.

“Everybody held their breaths. By-em-by he turns round.

“‘Had my fight,’ he sez, an’ his voice was a bit thick, ‘Met Chatty an’ Nobby in a quiet place. Chatty didn’t want to fight, no more did I. Nobby said we was afraid, an’ we called him a liar.’

“He drank up his beer.

“‘W’e didn’t fight, me an’ Chatty,’ he sez, after a bit.

‘‘‘But what about your face?’ I sez.

“He looked at me.

“‘Nobby did that,’ he sez.”</story>