<story title="THE MISER" date="1908">
ONCE I walked the mountainous streets of Toledo in quest of a house. From the great public square, a little hill fell steeply, and a short distance down, a small unlovely casa held a precarious foothold on its uneven foundations. I made my pilgrimage because in that house Cervantes discovered the truth about the army—which has undergone no change since. For what is true of the Pedros and Bombitta Chicos of the sixteenth century, is equally true of the Smithys and Nobbys and Spuds of this.

“The Army,” said the wise Cervantes, “is a school in which the niggardly become generous, and the generous prodigal; and if there are some soldiers misers, they are a kind of monster, but very rarely seen.”

I had half-written the story of Nobby Clark’s Patriotism when a chance-used phrase brought to my mental vision the picture of Grimmer—“Miser” Grimmer of “H” Company. Therefore, I put aside the tale of Nobby’s International Outrage for another day—and relate Private Smith’s story of the Miser.

“Old Grimmer came to the battalion when we was in Gib.,” said Smithy, “an’ one of the first things that struck me an’ Nobby about him was his stand-offishness. Not one of the ‘haw-haw’ sort, mind you: no grumblin’ about the food or the work, or havin’ to obey orders. That wasn’t Grimmer’s line. My own experience is that when a feller comes into the army, an’ starts cursin’ his grub, an’ sayin’ what a rotten life soldierin’ is, he’s a feller who’s spent his valuable life at servants’ entrances an’ sayin’, ‘Here’s-the-plate-an’-thank-you-mum.’

“Grim’s game was altogether different. He was stand­offish in the worst sense of the word. He never went out with people, he never entered the canteen, wet or dry, and he never spent money.

“If they was to feed you up like they do at the Ritz Hotel, soldiers would always buy extras for breakfast an’ tea. I’ve known Nobby Clark to get as much as four separate penn’oths of butter in one week. Nobby is a very managing sort of chap, an’ that’s how we first found out that Grim was a miser.

“Nobby had a pal in town, who was in the provision line of business—a short, fat, little chap. We was takin’ a ‘bock’ down at the ‘Glass Barrel’ when this feller, whose name was Nathan—one of the Scotch Nathans—sez:

“‘Look here, Mr. Clark, don’t your friends eat eggs?’

“‘Rather,’ sez Nobby.

“‘Well,’ says Nathan, ‘We’ve got a line of eggs that have just arrived, new laid ’uns, that we can do cheap; why don’t you buy ’em up an’ get your pals to buy ’em from you?’

“That was the sort of idea that, in a manner of speakin’, appealed to Nobby, an’ he was all over it in twice. Nathan let him have the eggs on credit, an’ they was to be sent up to barracks after Nobby had prepared the troops for the treat that was comin’.

“It was pay-day next day, an’ Nobby started at breakfast time to get the ground ready, so to speak.

“‘What’s for breakfast?’ he sez to the orderly man.

“‘Kippers,’ sez Spud.

“‘Kippers!’ sez Nobby in a horrowfied tone of voice. ‘Why, I thought that kippers had been barred.’

“‘What for?’ sez Spud.

“‘Oh, nothin’,’ sez Nobby, careless, ‘only a feller in “E” Company was poisoned last week with kippers—one of the deadliest fishes known, kippers is.’

“By this time Spud had served out two kippers a man, but the chaps didn’t start to eat ’em; they just looked at ’em very suspicious.

“‘Many a chap,’ sez Nobby, speakin’ loud so that the fellers of the new draft that had just come out from England could hear, ‘many a chap has found a soldier’s grave in a far off foreign land, far from his relations an’ girl, owin’ to kippers.’

“Spud looked at his an’ turned ’em over with the point of his fork.

“‘What’s wrong with ’em?’ he sez.

“But Nobby shook his head. “‘I’m not well up in these medical words,’ he sez, ‘but from what I heard the doctor sayin’ to the colonel the other day, the heat of the sun brings out a sort of microbe, called the microbinks kipperino, that makes you come out in yaller spots.’

“‘I don’t believe it,’ sez Spud.

“‘Of course, you don’t,’ sez Nobby, gently, an’ carefully picked up his own kipper with a bit of paper. ‘Smithy,’ he sez, ‘ run an’ borrer a spade from the pioneer sergeant; we’ll give this pore kipper a decent buryin’.’

“The rest of the fellers said they didn’t believe it neither; but somehow they didn’t eat their kippers.

“‘You ain’t gettin’ on with yours, old friend,’ sez Nobby, an’ Spud turned on him.

“‘I ain’t no friend of yours,’ he snarls.

“Nobby smiled sadly.

“‘I want to be friends,’ he sez. ‘I don’t want people to say I made your last hours unhappy,’ he sez.

“‘The fact is,’ sez Spud, ‘I don’t fancy kippers this mornin,’ I was out late last night. I’ll go down to the dry-canteen an’ get some potted beef.’

“‘Potted beef!’ sez Nobby, ‘don’t do it!’

“Then he went on to give a full description of how potted beef was made: that settled potted beef.

“‘In fact,’ sez Nobby, thoughtfully, ‘there’s only one thing that a feller can eat with safety—an’ that’s eggs.’

“‘Eggs!’ sez Spud, wrathful, ‘who can afford tuppence apiece for eggs?’

“Nobby got very indignant.

“Tuppence!’ he sez, ‘why, that’s robbery. You can get the best eggs in the market for a penny apiece. Smithy, why don’t you write to your friend Mr. Nathan, an’ ask him to send us some up?’

“I didn’t write, but the eggs turned up all the same—two big baskets of ’em, an’ Nobby sold ’em out in half-an-hour.

“It was a bargain day in eggs.

“‘I could have sold another basketful,’ sez Nobby, regretfully. ‘Every chap in the company bought some—except that blighter Grimmer.’

“Nobby couldn’t persuade Grimmer to take ’em, anyhow. He offered him seven for sixpence. He offered him three cracked ones for a penny—but Grim just shook his head. That’s what first drew Nobby’s attention to Grim.

“‘He’s a feller you can’t get a cent, out of,’ sez Nobby, very bitter; ‘a chap like that oughtn’t to be in the army.’

“Nobby didn’t say much more about Grim just then, for his mind was occupied by complaints about the eggs.

“It made Nobby’s life a perfect misery. We’d be sittin’ down to tea when in would come one chap after the other. You didn’t need to ask what they’d come about. You could, in a manner of speakin’ hear ’em comin’. Harry Gray, who’d been a pretty liberal buyer, came in with six at one meal.

“‘What d’ye call these, Nobby?’ he sez.

“‘Eggs,’ sez Nobby, calmly.

“‘Look at ‘em!’ sez Harry, indignantly.

“‘I can see ’em,’ sez Nobby, very hasty, ‘from where I am—don’t bring ’em any closer.’

“‘Do you call these eggs?’

“‘Certainly,’ sez Nobby, as bold as brass. ‘What did you think I called ’em—Welsh rabbits?’

“Once the orderly officer was makin’ his meal-time inspection. He came into our room.

“‘Any complaints?’ he sez; then he stopped an’ sniffed.

“‘What’s the matter with the drains?’ he sez, an’ the room-corporal explained that it was Nobby’s eggs.

“After that an order came out that every egg in barracks was to be collected, an’ Nobby was told off to dig a hole an’ bury ’em.

“Then, as the newspapers say, it subsequently transpired that Grimmer had bought two from a feller named Cohen for a penny. Cohen had paid a penny each for these eggs, but when he got them into his room, an’ tried to look through ’em before the gas, he saw somethin’ movin’ inside, so, bein’ a very careful chap, he cut his loss an’ offered Grimmer the bargain.

“‘I want my money back,’ sez Grimmer.

“‘I’m very sorry,’ sez Nobby, ‘but not bein’ a client of mine I can’t oblige you; we don’t change second-hand goods.’

“The way Grimmer carried on was something frightful. You’d have thought it was the last penny he had in the world—in fact, he got so excited that Nobby did what I’ve never known him to do before—parted with money.

“‘It’s perfectly sickenin’ to see what a hold the accursed money has on Grim,’ sez Nobby, solemnly, an’ Nobby knew a thing or two about holdin’ cash.

“Grimmer continued to keep hisself to hisself, an’ hoardin’ every penny he could get.

“I’ve got an idea that he used to work in his spare time for a little bootmaker on the Romps.

“One thing he never did was to read a newspaper, not even when it was lent to him, an’ when Nobby read out the police-court cases, an’ the inquests an’ murder trials, an’ other fashionable intelligence, Grimmer used to skip out of the room.

“Another thing was, he couldn’t sleep for more than a couple or three hours at a time. We found that out on guard, an’ the chap that slept in the next cot to him in his barrack-room said the same.

“‘Grimmer’s got somethin’ on his conscience,’ sez Nobby one day. ‘I’ll bet that years an’ years ago he gave away half a sovereign in mistake for a sixpence.’

“The rummiest thing of all about Grimmer was this: he was quite a decent feller, except where money was concerned; pleasant to talk to, quiet an’ retirin’, an’ as handy with his fists as the next man.

“Now, I’ve always said that the army is the queerest place in the world, because you never know exactly who you’re goin’ to meet. Grimmer was a curious bird, but a more curiouser bird was Simmy.*

* I presume the gentleman’s name was “Sims.”—E.W.

“Simmy came out with a draft from England. He was one of them fox-faced chaps that nobody cares much about. Had a shufflin’ way of walkin,’ an’ used to look at you sideways. He perduced a bad effect on Nobby by trying to borrer a bob till pay-day, but he perduced the worst effect of all on Grimmer.

“Grimmer happened to come into our room by accident, an’ came face to face with Simmy. Miser’s face went white, an’ he staggered back as if he was shot.

“Simmy just grinned.

“‘Hullo, Jack, so this is where you’ve got to!’ he sez, ‘fancy meetin’ you!‘

“Grimmer sez nothin’. He just turned on his heels an’ walked out of the room.

“‘He don’t seemed pleased to meet an ole pal,’ sez Simmy, still smilin’. ‘What’s he call hisself here?’

“Somebody told him.

“‘Grimmer, eh?’ sez Simmy, ‘an’ a very nice name, too.’ He was remarkably curious about Miser Grimmer, wanted to know what he did with hisself an’ all that. When we told him—it was Spud who told him, as a matter of fact—what a miser his pal was, he larfed an’ larfed, in a chucklin’ kind of way.

“As far as I know these two chaps didn’t meet again, till they came together in the canteen a week later. It was unusual to see Miser Grimmer in the canteen spendin’ his own money, but we’d had a bit of excitement that day, an’ everybody was doin’ unusual things.

“Somebody had broken into the orderly room an’ forced the safe. There was only a few pounds in it, so it didn’t seem quite worth the trouble.

“Simmy was givin’ his opinion about the robbery when Grimmer came in.

“‘It’s a fair show-up for the regiment,’ sez Simmy, very indignant. ‘Fancy only a couple of quid in the regimental safe—why, it makes us look like paupers.’

“‘It’s a funny thing,’ sez Nobby, ‘but that side of the question never struck me.’

“Just then Grimmer walked up.

“‘I want a word with you, Simmy,’ he sez, but Simmy just stared at him.

“‘Got anything to say, say it here,’ he sez.

“‘Oh, I’m not afraid to say it,’ sez Grimmer, ‘it’s this: Don’t come that game again.’

“‘What game?’

“‘You know,’ sez Grimmer, and his face was white with passion, ‘don’t do it again, that’s all.’

“‘I don’t know what you are talking about,’ sez Simmy, very cool. ‘Me an’ Nobby was talkin’ about the burglary when you stuck your nose in. I was tellin’ him that it reminded me of a job down in Essex, done by two brothers by the name of Clancy. One got caught an’ got seven years, the other sneaked away an’ ain’t been seen since.’

“I could see Grimmer’s hands closin’ an’ unclosin’ like a man in a fit.

“‘That’s a lie,’ he sez in a low voice. ‘There was only one brother in it—the other burglar was a low thief— a dirty little Whitechapel hound, who led the boy away. The other brother was straight—he was a fool, but he was straight.’

“Simmy larfed.

“‘You seem to know a lot about it,’ he sez, with a sneer, an’ turned his back on Grimmer.

“Miser stood for a bit, then he caught my eye an’ walked out. I went out after him.

“‘Smithy,’ he sez, ‘where will I find the colonel ? ‘

“‘He’s at mess,’ I sez, wonderin’.

“‘I’m goin’ to see him,’ he sez.

“‘But you must get a N.C.O. to take you,’ I told him.

“We walked across the square to the mess. We met a chap who had just seen the old man go into his quarters, an’ we followed that direction, me tryin’ to persuade him to see a sergeant. As luck would have it, we found the colonel an’ Major Morris sittin’ in front of the quarters smokin’.

“‘Who’s that?’ sez the old man, for it was dark.

“‘Private Grimmer, sir,’ sez Miser.

“‘Who is with you?’

“‘Private Smith, sir,’ I sez.

“‘What do you want, Smith?’ sez the Colonel.

“‘Private Grimmer wants to speak to you, sir,’ I sez, feelin’ a bit blue.

“‘Why, what’s the meaning of this?’ sez the Colonel, ‘you know this is against regulations—you should have seen the sergeant-major.’

“Before I could say anything Miser spoke.

“What he said I don’t know to this day, but I think it was in French, because he talked through his nose, but when he’d finished the Colonel sez:

“‘You needn’t wait, Smith,’ an’ I left Grimmer talkin’.

“When I got back to the canteen Simmy was still on the subject of the burglary down in Essex.

“‘Seven years that young bloke got,’ he sez, ‘an’ the stuff he pinched wasn’t worth seven pence. A green young chap, quite the gentleman that burglar was: his first ‘click’ an’ he made enough row to wake the dead. That’s why he was caught. His brother was awful upset about it: he didn’t know——’

“‘Thought you said he was the other burglar?’ sez Spud.

“‘That was only my kid,’ sez Simmy. ‘Well this—’

“The canteen door opened an’ in walked Sergeant Jackson.

“He walks up to Simmy.

“‘I want you,’ he sez.

“‘What for?’ sez Simmy, without battin’ an eyelid.

“‘About twenty things,’ sez the sergeant. ‘Makin’ a false statement on attestation for one thing; callin’ yourself Sims when your name is Pilker for another; bein’ concerned in burglary for another.’

“Miser had walked in after the sergeant.

“‘Oh, it’s you, is it?’ sez Simmy, calmly, ‘you’ve give me away—why, his brother’s doin’ seven years!’ he said, pointin’ to Miser.

“‘We know all about that,’ sez the sergeant, ‘an’ we know who put ’im there.’

“‘All right,’ sez Simmy, careless. ‘It’s a cop an’ I’ll go quiet.’

“Two men fell in, one on each side of him.

“‘Saw your brother before I came out, Jack,’ he sez to Grimmer. ‘Went to have dekko at him in Wormwood Scrubbs.’

“Miser said nothin’.

“‘I gave him away all right,’ sez Simmy, as cool as a cucumber, ‘it was a case of givin’ him away or givin’ myself away—but he didn’t know that when I saw him.’

“Grimmer stood with his head bowed.

“‘He told me,’ Simmy went on, ‘that you’d got a Government job somewhere, an’ was savin’ up money to make a start in a new country when he came out of prison. Have you saved much, Miser?’

“He grinned as they marched him away, an’ when he’d left nobody said a word.

“Then Nobby came up to Grimmer.

“‘Grim,’ he sez, ‘you an’ me had a little dispute over eggs—I’m willin’ to admit that I was in the wrong—I owe you tuppence.’

“It was the only time that Nobby was ever known to offer to pay back money he’d got from a chap.

“‘Thanks, Nobby,’ sez Grimmer with a smile, ‘but there’s no need any longer: the colonel is going to help us when I leave the army.’

“Walkin’ back to barracks Nobby was very thoughtful.

“‘Smithy,’ he sez, ‘it’s rum that I’ve never thought of touchin’ the colonel for money—it opens up what I might call vistas.’”</story>