<story title="THE INVENTION CRAZE" date="1908">
IN compiling military text books, it frequently happens that mistakes occur, but your military text book being an unimaginative and wholly utilitarian production, such mistakes are inartistically but effectively corrected by a slip pasted at the beginning of the book. It is as well that this should be done. For in a little manual on regimental routine, I once read the following astounding instruction:—


“The burglar on duty should be wakened half-an-hour before reveille by the sergeant of the guard, so that he should more effectively and punctually perform his duty.”


But for the amending slip that prefaced the volume I should have gone through life under the impression that the Anchester Regiment, so far from discouraging, actually fostered crime. But the slip reassured me. It ran:—


“Para 24. line 6. For ‘burglar’ read ‘bugler.’”


In the days when the Anchester Journal appeared, such printer’s errors were a source of considerable annoyance. The Anchester Journal was the regimental magazine. It was published monthly at 2d., and was worth the money. Especially was it precious in the days when Private Clark undertook its composition. For one learnt of such interesting happenings as:


“the reGMentall sportS went of WITH graet suCesS.”

And

“a New Drajt Has arriven froM anchEsters.”


Nobby, I must explain, took on the duty of compositor at a time when Jinky—very properly and naturally called “Inky”—Taylor went into hospital with a broken rib, acquired at great expense one pay night at the “Glass Barrel.”

Nobby had never set a line of type before, but he was very willing, and the result was creditable. Though Captain Umfreville objected, somewhat captiously, I think, to the abbreviation of his name to “Cap. Umf.,” Nobby’s explanation that he couldn’t find the box with the “l’s” in was accepted.

“The thing that everybody’s got to remember about Nobby,” defended Smithy, “is that he’s willin’. It don’t matter what sort of job’s offered to Nobby he’d take it on, if he’d never seen it done before. When we got to Belfast, in the Transvaal, durin’ the war, we found a lot of railway engines, an’ the general called for volunteers who knew somethin’ about engine-drivin’ to come forward.

“Nobby was one of the first chaps to stand out.

“‘What do you know about engines, Clark?’ sez the adjutant.

“‘Everythin’ that’s known,’ sez Nobby, prompt.

“‘Can you drive one?’

“‘Drive ’em, sir?’ sez Nobby, very much amused at the idea of his not bein’ able to drive ’em. ‘Why, the man that drives the “Flyin’ Scotsman” used to live next door to us at home!’

“‘But can you drive ’em?’ sez the officer.

“‘I’m willin’ to try,’ sez Nobby. ‘I can’t say no fairer than that, sir.’

“‘But,’ sez the officer, very persistent, ‘have you ever worked an engine?’

“‘Yes, sir,’ sez Nobby; ‘a beer engine,’ he sez.

“I can’t understand why Nobby didn’t get the job, an’ it only goes to prove that there’s no encouragement given in the army to chaps who want to learn a trade.

“There was never a job goin’ in barracks, with extra pay attached, that Nobby didn’t apply for: cook, armourer, shoemaker, tailor, or odd paintin’ work. Nobby put in for ’em all at some time or another. He got one or two, but somehow he never stuck to ’em. You see, Nobby’s got ideas of his own, an’ the army, bein’ what I might call conservative, don’t encourage a chap to go off the beaten track.

“For instance, when Nobby was tailorin’, he thought out a plan for a new regimental weskit, an’ a plan for a pocket in your cap, so as a chap could carry his shavin’ kit when he went on leave. When he was at the armourer’s he thought out a new bullet with a bit of string fastened to it, so that when you’d shot a feller you could extract the bullet without callin’ in the doctor. Nobby worked it out, that it would save the Government hundreds of pounds a year in bullets alone.

“But Nobby’s greatest invention was his latest. It was when Sanitas Domount, the balloon bloke, was creatin’ such a stir that Nobby got the idea for a flyin’ machine.

“I don’t say that he ever carried it out, because, as a matter of fact, he couldn’t raise the money; but the idea was a fine one.

“Nobby had been studyin’ birds, sparrers an’ canaries an’ things, an’ he saw the idea in a flash.

“His invention was to make a lot of bla-monges—them white puddin’s—an’ put ’em round the edge of a balloon basket. Then you had to stick thousan’s of feathers all over ’em. Then you had to shake the bla-monges to make ’em tremble, an’ as soon as they started tremblin’ an’ the feathers wavin’, up the bloomin’ car would go.

“That was Nobby’s best invention, but the money didn’t come in, even though Nobby pointed out to the chaps that even if the experiment didn’t come to any­thing it would be simple to pick the feathers out, an’ eat the bla-monges.

“This was just about the time when the regiment was invention-mad. A feller of ours named Hawkey had invented a new cut-off for the rifle. A silly simple thing it was, that anybody could have thought of, if they’d happened to be thinkin’ of it. Yet Mr. Bloomin’ Hawkey got twenty pounds from the War Office an’ might have had promotion if it hadn’t been for a slight argument he had with a civil policeman in town (we was at Gib. at the time).

“The moment it got about that Hawkey had made twenty pounds the regiment reclined in various thoughtful attitudes, an’ put together inventions. That’s when Nobby produced the pull-out bullet an’ the razor-case cap an’ the reversible shirt that didn’t require washin’. Spud Murphy invented a holler bayonet with holes in it that you could play like a flute, an’ Yatesey invented a patent boot that laced itself up, an’ Bill Mason, who was a first-class armourer, invented a new kind of hand­cuff. He tried ’em on Spud, an’ when he went to take ’em off they wouldn’t work, an’ it took the armourer-sergeant a whole day to file ’em off.

“Then Nobby invented a penny-in-the-slot machine out of a biscuit-box an’ an old alarum clock. You put your penny in one end an’ got a packet of Woodbines out of the other.

“Lots of chaps tried that. The pennies went in all right, but nothin’ seemed to come out at the other end.

“‘It’s very funny,’ sez Nobby. ‘It worked all right this mornin’—try it again.’

“So the chap who was makin’ the experiment—a recruit named Bowen—put another penny in, but nothin’ happened.

“Nobby kept shakin’ the box to make it work, but it was no go.

“‘Try it again,’ sez Nobby.

“‘No, thanks,’ sez the young feller, ‘it’s cost me threepence already.’

“‘The chances are,’ sez Nobby, thoughtfully, ‘that the next penny that’s put in will bring out four packets—who’ll have a penn’orth?’

“Tiny White tried on the off chance of gettin’ the four, an’ Harry Dyke had two tries because Nobby said that as likely as not the whole bloomin’ stock of cigarettes would come out at one pop.

“Spud said it was a swindle, an’ most of the other fellers who had lost money said the same.

“But, as Nobby pointed out, you can’t expect a new invention to work smooth at first, an’ it showed the invention was genuine because one part of it was workin’ splendidly.

“‘Which part?’ sez Spud.

“‘The part where the money goes in,’ sez Nobby.

“After that Nobby invented a burglar alarm an’ Spud sez it wasn’t before it was wanted.

“It was soon after that Nobby took on the Anchester Journal. I think I told you about Inky Taylor goin’ sick. Nobby wasn’t the greatest compositor in the world. He’s the sort of modest chap who’d admit it. But he did his dabdest an’ angels can do no more. When Inky came out of hospital an’ started sortin’ out the type that Nobby had mixed up, he said that Nobby was the most experimental chap he’d ever worked with. There wasn’t a single kind of type in the office that Nobby hadn’t messed about, an’ it took Inky the best part of three months to put ’em straight. You’d find little ‘X’s’ in the boxes where the ‘B’s’ live, an’ ‘G’s’ an’ ‘C’s’ all piggin’ together in one happy family.

“Nobby wanted Inky to take him on an’ learn him the trade.

“I forget exactly where Inky said he’d see Nobby to before he allowed him within a hundred miles of his office, but it was somewhere unpleasant.

“But Nobby was terribly taken up with the printin’ business an’ went off to see the sergeant-major, who was the editor of the regimental journal. It so happened that the feller who used to do the general work on the paper, had just gone away on the reserve an’ when Nobby asked for the job, an’ said his brother was the editor of the Times, an’ his uncle George was the head man on the Telegraph, and his cousin Peter drew the pictures in the Sunday Chronicle the sergeant-major gave him the job.

“News is pretty scarce in a regiment, beyond cricket an’ football an’ a concert or two at the sergeants’ mess, an’ the shootin’, there’s nothin’ to write about except ‘We hear with regret of the death of Mr. Thomas Samson, who served as a private in the Anchester Regiment durin’ the Peninsular War,’ an’ similar excitin’ items of news.

“When the battalion got to India, it was even worse, because the regiment had to depend upon the officers for news. We’d have a ‘Short Account of my Pig-Stickin’ Expedition to the Chootee Hills,’ an’ a ‘Brief Note of a Tiger Hunt in Bengal.’ All these was very interestin’ to the chaps who wrote ’em, but for the fellers who bought the paper they wasn’t worth two penn’orth of snuff.

“It was when we was in Chucajee waitin’ for the cholera to pass that Nobby got charge of the paper owin’ to the sergeant-major goin’ sick.

“That’s when it began to get bright.

“Nobby started a new column called ‘Tittle Tattle’ that caused more excitement in one day than the Journal had caused all its life.

“There were little paragraphs like this:—


Spud took another bath last Tuesday. How time flies!
Ugly J. has entered for the Chucajee Beauty Competition.

Diary of the Week.

Tuesday.—Money market tight.
Wednesday (Pay Day). — Bill Mason ditto.


“An’ such light-hearted chatter. An’ he had a leader about recruits payin’ respect to old soldiers.

“But the finest thing in the whole magazine was the Foreign News—an’ of all the things that Nobby ever invented in his life this was the most wonderful an’ astonishin’ for more reasons than one.

“I think I told you about Chucajee an’ the sort of place it was. It was miles from everywhere, an’ there wasn’t no wire, an’ no telephone, or anything. We got all the news we got from mounted messengers an’ from a helio station twenty miles away on the hills.

“Bein’ in a cholera camp the officers was quite willin’ to do anythin’ to prevent the young soldiers dyin’ of funk, an’ when Nobby asked the adjutant if he could make up news the adjutant sez, Yes.

“‘In fact,’ sez the adjutant, ‘I never expected anything like the truth from a paper you have to do with, Clark, an’ I shall be very much disappointed if I ’eard a single line in the Journal that I can believe.’

“‘Thank you, sir,’ sez Nobby, gratefully.

“So me an’ Nobby sat down to write the foreign news.

“We started by sayin’ that the wife of a Wolver­hampton labourer had had triplets, an’ got the King’s bounty.

“‘We’re pretty safe in sayin’ that,’ sez Nobby, who reads the newspapers; ‘they’re always havin’ triplets in Wolverhampton.’

“‘What about a fire in the City?’ I sez.

“‘That’s a good idea,’ sez Nobby, an’ wrote:


A terrible fire occurred in the City of London. Damage was done to the extent of hundreds of pounds. The place was insured.


“And then we put in a bit about a Liverpool gentleman who committed suicide owin’ to the loss of his high hat, a bit about a scene in Parliament, an’ a bit about the German Emperor.

“‘We can’t go wrong in sayin’ this,’ sez Nobby, very confident, ‘because this is the sort of news that’s in the papers all the year round.’

“Just then we was all full of the Chucajee Plate, what Nobby lost owin’ to his bein’ overweight, an’ it was only natural that Nobby should want to do the sportin’ news very well. So he went to a young officer in the sportin’ line of business, young Lieutenant Tollemache, an’ asked him if he could tell him what races was on just about then.

“‘Well, Clark,’ sez the officer, smilin, ‘there’s all kinds of races—there’s the Manchester November Handicap next week.’

“‘What’s goin’ to run, sir?’ sez Nobby.

“‘Not bein’ gifted as you are, Clark,’ sez the officer, ‘with the divine gift of secon’ sight, I can’t tell you—but I’ve got the entries,’ an’ he dug ’em out.

‘There was forty-three entries, an’ me an’ Nobby sat down to write about the race.

“‘We’ll make The Brewer win,’ sez Nobby, ‘an’ Otuka second.’

“An’ he sat down and wrote the description just like, you read about in the papers.


The Manchester November Handicap was run yesterday amidst great excitement. Epsom Downs was crowded with people and so were the trains. It was a glorious sight. “The Brewer” was the first at the post and spent some time chatting with the starter. The noble animal leant idly against the starting gate watching the animated scene with his beautiful eyes. Suddenly the whistle blew and “The Brewer” roaring with excitement, leapt into the air. “They’re off!” was the cry, and in a few minutes the horses were tearing round the cinder track as though they meant business. They disappeared behind the Bushes. Three minutes passed, five minutes passed, and the excitement became phenomenal. Suddenly the horses came into sight. “The Brewer” was leading. The other horses were behind. “‘The Brewer’ wins!” they cried, as the field came round Tattenham Comer, and bets were freely made. The bell rang joyously. “The Brewer” had won; Otuka second; Hammond Lady third. Betting: 50 to 1 agst “The Brewer,” 1,000 to 1 agst Otuka, 5,000 to 1 agst Hammond Lady. The favourite won by six lengths.


“That was the finest bit of writin’ that Nobby ever done in his life, an’ when the Journal came out everybody was delighted with it. In fact, there never was a Journal that had a bigger sale than Nobby’s number.

“Billy Mason said he’d have Nobby into court for deflamation of character, an’ Spud Murphy liked the paragraph about his bath so much that he said that for two pins he’d break Nobby’s jaw, but the officers was very pleased an’ the Colonel sent for Nobby.

“‘Very well done, Clark,’ he sez, ‘very excellent spoof. What a liar you are; you’re a born journalist,’ an’ similar compliments.

“Young Tollemache sent for Nobby, too.

“‘Clark,’ he sez. ‘what the devil made you hit upon The Brewer—I’ve never heard of the horse. Is it a runner?’

“‘I don’t know, sir,’ sez Nobby: ‘it ought to be,’ he sez.

“The young officer looks at Nobby.

“‘H’m,’ he sez, ‘the race is run in two days’ time.’ He shook his head an’ said nothin’ else.

“Soon after that we got orders to move to Poona, an’ we weren’t particularly sorry to get there. The night we arrived, Nobby an’ me was discussin’ things.

“‘I’ve got a feelin,’ sez Nobby, ‘that old Tolly has sent a cable home an’ backed The Brewer, an’ that it’ll win, an’ old Tolly will come in to me an’ say, with tears in his eyes, “Nobby, you’ve saved me family from ruin—here’s a hundred for you, don’t make a beast of yourself with it, an’——”’

“Then a most surprisin’ thing happened, for the very thing that Nobby was speakin’ about come to pass. In walked Tolly an’ another officer, an’ they was lookin’ so pleased with theirselves that I could almost hear the money clinkin’ into Nobby’s pockets.

“‘Ah, Clark,’ sez the officer, ‘I thought you’d like to know that I took your spoof tip an’ cabled home to back The Brewer.’

“‘Yes, sir,’ sez Nobby, quite fluttered.

“‘It didn’t win,’ said the officer, an’ Nobby’s face fell to six o’clock.

“‘Beg pardon, sir?’ he sez.

“‘It didn’t win, because there isn’t such a horse.’

“Nobby gasped.

“‘But it was in that paper you gave me, sir,’ he sez.

“‘Brewer’s not the name of a horse—it’s the name of a trainer,’ he sez.”</story>