<story title="AN ACT OF WAR" date="1908">
YOU are very much mistaken if you imagine that the British soldier is a person whose foreign relations have to do with coloured ladies and gentlemen exclusively. Generally speaking, his business is with people who have not yet arrived at a point where clothing is regarded as a necessity, who worship strange images, occasionally cannibalize, and from time to time slay a missionary. A simple, pastoral, light-hearted people with primitive amusements.

We also know that Mr. Atkins is brought into the closest touch with the fellaheen, being on familiar terms with descendants of Pharoah, and as well acquainted with the masterpieces of Cheops as you or I are with St. Paul’s Cathedral or the Memorial Hall. His way lies through historic Eastern cities, to rub elbow with the Ayrian races. He knows the Taj Mahal by sight, but not to speak to, and if there is one shop in Calcutta where good beer is sold you may be sure that he knows all about it, and can take you by the hand and lead you to it. He has an encyclopædic knowledge of strange things that do not appear in any respectable guide book—mostly I grant, about countries and peoples in the vicinity of the equator. He has not interfered in European politics since 1857, so it may be that he is a little rusty so far as the Continent is concerned.

When I say “has not interfered” I mean, of course, publicly interfered. Interfered in such a manner as would attract the attention of the public press, or effect in any way the insurance risks at Lloyds.

But there are curious stories in vogue in the army concerning unofficial happenings, in which it would seem that the little British Army has really committed most outrageous and unlawful acts, calculated not only to disharmonise the concert of Europe, but to render totally incapable the big drum of Germany, the double bass of St. Petersburg, and the little tin whistle of a certain southern state which shall be nameless.

I liken the concert of Europe to an itinerant brass band that performs at street corners. Once, when that band was playing a soul-stirring triumphal march, there came before it a small boy sucking a visible lemon—and the band went out of business, temporarily.

It is betraying no confidence when I say that the small boy was none other than Private Smith, of the Anchester Regiment, and that he was aided and abetted by Nobby Clark, of B Company.

The principal instrumentalist in the band for the time being was a certain M. Vladyskisch, Minister Plenipotentiary of the Southern state which shall be nameless.

Smithy told me the story, and I have no reason to disbelieve it.

“Do you know Croto?” he asked. “It’s where the castor oil comes from. It’s a bit of an island about so far from Cyprus an’ so far from Malta—direct sailin’. It don’t belong to nobody, this island don’t, so everybody claimed it. Italy claimed it, an’ Russia, an’ France said that now you come to mention it, she lost an island somewhere about there in B.C. 45; an’ Germany said ‘No, there was some mistake, because she’d left an island in exactly the same spot hundreds of years ago, an’ she recognised it by some green spots an’ blue mountains.’ So all the Powers called a conference, and whilst they was arguin’ the point England nipped in an’ pinched it.

“We didn’t say we pinched it. We said we occupied it as a temp’ry measure, but everybody knew what that meant, an’ the conference broke up in a hurry an’ bolted for the island to pick up the scraps that England left.

“After that there was another conference, an’ it was decided that it belonged to all the countries, an’ so there was an international force sent to occupy it. All this time nobody thought of the people of Croto themselves, an’ when they asked if the country didn’t belong to them as they happened to be livin’ there, all the Powers said, ‘Certainly not,’ an’ cussed ’em for bein’ ungrateful.

“There was a sort of movement amongst the Croto people for independence, but the Powers sat on the head of that, an’ after a while, the trouble sort of died down, an’ troops was withdrawn from the island, bit by bit, till there was only a skeleton force of British, French, German, Russian, Greek, Turkish, Italian, Austrian, an’ Spanish troops left.

“We were stationed at Malta at the time, an’ H Company was on duty at the Island. They was very cocky about it, an’ said they’d been chosen to represent the British Army because they was the smartest company in the battalion, but, as a matter of fact, when H went to Croto, there was a danger of a massacre, an’ the colonel sent the company that he could spare the best.

“The night before the company sailed we had a farewell ‘barney’ at the canteen, an’ Nobby made a speech to the H chaps who were there—an’ they were all there, owin’ to the drinks bein’ free.

“‘Friends an’ comrades,’ sez Nobby; ‘You are about to sail for a foreign land, from which very few of you will ever come back alive. We shall miss you sadly. There’ll be nothin’ left for the adjutant to grumble at. When you are gone the honour of being the dirtiest crowd on parade will be taken up by C Company.’

“Nobby bein’ a verv agile feller, escaped from the canteen before they got at him, but poor little Tubby Wilson—they fairly danced on him.

“We saw ’em away from the harbour next day, the band playin’ ‘Will you no’ come back again?’—a very sarcastic tune that was—an’ H Company cheerin’ themselves like one o’clock.

“In two days we’d forgotten all about H, an’ all about Croto.

“What brought ’em up again was a discussion we was havin’ in barracks one night about politics.

“Spud Murphy was sayin’ what a good thing it would be if there was a big war.

“‘Fat lot of good that would do,’ said Nobby, who always waits to hear what Spud sez an’ then takes the opposite side of the question. ‘What’s the sense of shootin’ white people?’

“‘Loot,’ sez Spud, very emphatic. ‘That’s where the sense is. Suppose you’re fightin’ in Europe. You go into a town after the scrap’s all over, walk into the bank, an’ come out with pockets full of five pound notes.’

“That was an argument which entirely shut up Nobby. Anything with money in it appealed to him.

“Next day I found him in the library with a bit of pencil an’ a paper workin’ out how much gold a chap could carry.

“‘Four sov’reigns weigh an ounce,’ he sez, thoughtful; ‘sixteen ounces one pound—that makes £64 a pound. Now, I think I could carry about a couple of hundred­weight, which is about £7,000. Smithy, there’s somethin’ in what Spud sez.

“Then he worked out that a chap could carry half a million in £5 notes, an’ a million in tenners, an’ ten million in hundred pound notes.

“That night, when we was lyin’ in bed after lights out—Nobby always sleeps in the next cot to mine—he was makin’ up what he would do with the money; how he would put it in envelopes addressed, N. Clark, Esq.—to be called for—an’ post it to the Penny Bank in the Old Kent-road, an’ how he would buy a pub in Walworth, an’ drive about in a motor-car.

“He rambled on till the corporal asked him if he was talkin’ in his sleep.

“‘No,’sez Nobby; ‘I’m goin’ over me financial affairs.’

“‘Then close your port,’ sez the corporal, ‘or you’ll be goin’ over to the guard room.’

“Just before I went to sleep I heard Nobby’s voice mutterin’, ‘Six fours is twenty-six—six an’ carry two; two hundred times twenty-six is——’

“I must have been asleep two hours when something woke me.

“It was the noise of feet on the barrack square, an’ the voice of the adjutant.

“A little while later in came the colour-sergeant, half-dressed, an’ carryin’ a lantern.

“‘Rouse up you fellers,’ he sez, ‘as quietly as you can; fall in in an hour’s time, full marchin’ order.’

“Just then we heard a faint bugle call from the Wigshires lines.

“‘There’s the noisy Wigshire blighters,’ sez the colour-sergeant, bitterly. ‘Can’t go out to war without advertisin’ it.’

“‘War?’ sez Nobby, jumpin’ out of bed an’ blinkin’ at the light. ‘War, colour-sergeant? Six fours is thirty-two, four thirty-twos is a hundred an’ sixty, ten——’

“‘Wake up, you!’ said the colour chap, an’ Nobby started hurryin’ into his clothes.

“‘Smithy,’ he sez;’ I’ve been dreamin’ about this. It’s come, Smithy. I’m goin’ to put the notes in me haversack, an’ the gold in me valise. No silver or coppers to be taken away, cheques——’

“‘You’ve got your trousis on inside out,’ I sez, for I was not in any Dolly Daydream mood, not at one o’clock in the mornin’!

“A torpedo boat had come in from Croto with the news that the Croto people was out of hand, an’ was attackin’ the international force, an’ two battalions, ours an’ the Wigshires, were ordered to embark on a couple of battleships for the scene of action.

“It was just before daybreak when the Anchesters got aboard the old Caliope, an’ the sun was just comin’ up when we moved out of the harbour.

“We got to Croto on the second day.

“The town we landed at was called Ampea, an’ it was lively landin’, for all the time we was bein’ rowed ashore some patriotic Croto gentleman was snipin’ us from the hills. It was no good the battleship shellin’ ’em, because they was in ones an’ twos.

“There was no sign of the allied forces. They’d retired hurt into the interior of the island, an’ was very busy settlin’ the question amongst theirselves as to who was in command. The French officer sez he was, an’ the Italian sez he was, an’ the German asked where he came in, an’ the Austrian refused to take orders from the Turk, an’ the Englishman wouldn’t take orders from anybody. The streets of the city was deserted. Some of the shops were burnt, an’ others had been looted, an’ bits of cloth an’ boots an’ things was strewed all over the town. The general, who had come with us from Malta, formed three strong piquets to patrol the town, an’ B was one of ’em.

“With fixed bayonets an’ our magazines charged we marched to the east end of the town, keepin’ to the broad streets an’ avoidin’ the narrow ones.

“It was as quiet as death, just a few wanderin’ dogs, an’ an ole woman, that’s all we saw until we came to a big square.

“It was a public square with a garden an’ a statue an’ a fountain in it, an’ at one of the big houses standin’ out by itself a flag was flyin’.

“‘That is an Embassy,’ I heard our officer say, an’ just then a little man came runnin’ out an’ stopped dead at the sight of us. He had a big leather wallet in his hand, an’ he stood by a bit, hesitating as though he wasn’t decided whether he should come on or run back.

“Then he slowly walked over to us.

“‘I’m M’sieur Pollysnitch,’ he sez; ‘I’m the Minister for Blamongia.’

“Our officer saluted.

“‘I desire to see the general,’ sez the little man, very eager. ‘My Government has a bank here, an’ we are most anxious to get a guard——’

“‘You’ll find the general on the quay,’ sez the officer. “Where is your bank?’

“‘I will lead you to it,’ sez the little chap, an’ starts hoppin’ off ahead. We followed him till we came to a stone buildin’. Most of the winders was smashed, but there was shutters up on the inside.

“The little chap opened the door with a key, an’ I noticed his hand shook.

“‘I’ll put up a couple of men inside,’ sez the officer. ‘They can hold it till the town is quietened down—where are all the people, by the way?’

“The little chap waved his hand to the hills.

“‘There,’ he sez, an’ then he hesitated again, ‘couldn’t your men hold this buildin’ from the outside?’

“‘No,’ sez the officer sharply, ‘I can’t leave two men in the open street to be shot down by your friends.’

“‘Not my friends,’ sez the little man, quick; ‘they are wicked rebels.’

“The officer nodded—it was Major Morris.

“‘I understood things were very quiet in Croto,’ he sez, ‘that the population was disarmed; that no rifles was comin’ to the island, an’ the sale of ammunition was stopped by law—where did they get their guns from?’

“The little chap shrugged an’ shrugged, till I thought he’d break his collar-bone.

“‘Who knows?’ he sez.

“The officer was lookin’ over the company.

“‘Fall out, Smith an’ Clark,’ he sez, ‘you two men will go inside this building, an’ will hold it. You will shoot down any person attemptin’ to enter——’

“‘Except me,’ sez the Ambassador, quick.

“‘Except his Excellency,’ sez the officer, ‘an’ if you are attacked you will defend yourself as well as you can until you are relieved.’

“Again the little feller tried to persuade the officer to leave us outside, but Nobby, who was all a-twitter with excitement, put his spoke in.

“‘Beg pardon, sir.’ he sez, ‘it would take a couple of hundred chaps to hold this buildin’ from the outside.’

“‘I think it would,’ sez the officer.

“The upshot of it was that we went in, an’ the door was shut on us.

“Nobby almost collapsed when we was safe inside.

“‘Smithy,’ he gasps, ‘it’s come!’

“I looked round the big room we was in. There was a lot of desks an’ stools an’ scales, but I didn’t see no bank-notes. I told Nobby so.

“‘Besides,’ I sez, ‘you can’t pinch things you’re set to guard.’

“‘I know that,’ sez Nobby, who’s a great feller for reasonin’ things out, ‘but you must understand, Smithy, that this is a Government bank, an’,’ he sez, as the brilliant idea struck him, ‘perhaps it’s the enemy’s bank. Pr’aps this is where the enemy puts its money by.’

“I tried to show him what a silly ass notion it was, but he was very enthusiastic about it.

“‘At any rate,’ he sez, after a bit, ‘we can look round an’ find out where the money is in case it turns out that what I say is right.’

“So we loafed about, lookin’ under tables an’ tryin’ the drawers of the desks.

“Then we tried the doors leadin’ out of the office, but they was locked.

“All except one.

“That was locked, too, as a matter of fact, but the chap that locked it must have been in a hurry, for he had turned the key before the door was shut close, an’ when we pushed it, it swung open, an’ showed us a flight of steps leadin’ down to the cellar.

“Nobby struck a match, an’ led the way down, an’ then he made his discovery.

“We found ourselves in a big cellar. There wasn’t any need for matches, because a dim kind of light came from a gratin’—which was a sort of ventilator.

“Piled up round the walls was long boxes—there must have been two hundred.

“Somethin’ was stencilled on ’em, an’ they were all sealed with red sealin’ wax.

“‘Gelt,’ read Nobby, ‘what does that mean, Smithy?’

“‘Gilt,’ I sez.

“‘Gilt!’ sez Nobby, very excited, ‘why, that’s slang for gold!’

He tried to lift one of the boxes, an’ it was as much as he could do.

“We looks at each other.

“‘Smithy,’ sez Nobby, very solemn, ‘there’s a million pounds here—what a pity old Pollysnitch ain’t the enemy.’

“He reached up to one of the top layers of boxes, an’ lifted it up.

“‘Gilt,’ he sez, mournful, ‘enough bloomin’ gilt to gild the dome of St. Paul’s.’

“I don’t know how it happened, but he must have pushed it out of its place.

“‘Look out!’ I sez, an’ he jumped back as the box toppled over, an’ crashed to the ground.

“Smashed it was, an’ there was somethin’ wrapped in oiled paper inside.

“As soon as he saw what he’d done, all the loot business went out of Nobby.

“I don’t suppose he’d ever thought serious of lootin’, for Nobby’s too good a soldier.

“‘Here’s a mess!’ he sez, ‘help me lift it up.’

“He stooped down, then jumped up quick.

“‘Gilt!’ he sez, ‘why, Smithy, these are rifles!’

“An’ so they were—boxes of ’em, an’ ammunition stored in most of ’em.

“Nobby whistled, an’ just then there came a bang at the bank door.

“‘Up you get, Smithy,’ he sez, an’ we raced up together.

“There was a little trap hole in the door—a sort of place like a pay box at a theatre, an’ Nobby looked out.

“‘It’s Pollysnitch.’ he whispers, an’ Spud Murphy’s with him.’

“Then he yelled out:

“‘Don’t come any nearer or I’ll fire,’ an’ Pollysnitch skipped back.

“‘What’s the game?’ sez Spud, comin’ up to the hole.

“‘Spud,’ sez Nobby in a low voice, ‘what’s happened?’

“‘You’re relieved,’ sez Spud, ‘this here ambassor has decided there’s no need for a guard, so the adjutant sent me along with him to tell you.’

“‘I mean,’ sez Nobby, ‘what’s happenin’ in the town?’

“Spud shook his head.

“‘Blowed if I know,’ he sez, ‘these blokes are goin’ in for their independence, there’s thousands of ’em outside the town, an’ I heard the colonel say to the adjutant that if we can’t stop ’em from armin’ before to-night they’re goin’ to have “coody tar” (coup d’etat)—what’s that?’

“‘Some horrible foreign drink,’ sez Nobby—but I think he got the idea, for he opened the door, an’ saluted the little ambassador.

“‘Won’t you come in, sir?’ he sez, an’ Pollysnitch walked in.

“Then Nobby suddenly slammed the door, an’ grabbed him by the neck.

“‘Pollysnitch,’ he sez, ‘you’re for the high jump.’

“Polly struggled like mad, but Nobby had got him well fixed.

“By an’ bye we tied him down to a chair. He was white with rage.

“‘My man,’ he sez—he spoke English as well as me or you. ‘My man, you will get into serious trouble—do you know that this is an act of war?’

“‘I do,’ sez Nobby, calmly. ‘Spud,’ he sez, ‘nip back to the piquet, an’ tell the major I’ve located the enemy, an’ captured his bloomin’ ammunition train.’”</story>