<story title="HONOUR" date="1908">
OF course, pickets are absurd, and, of course, the C.I.C., Aldershot, acted wisely in abolishing them. You may be sure that anything you do in the Army that has never been done before will be hailed with delight, and acclaimed instantly as a much-needed reform.

“We are going to substitute hooks and eyes for buttons,” says the War Office.

“Hooray!” says the public.

“Soldiers’ trousers will be creased at the sides instead of back and front,” says the War Office.

“Hooray!!” says the public.

“In future the Army will wear mohair laces,” says the War Office.

“Hooray, hooray!!” says the public, “this is real reform! Vive la (who ever happens to be in office at the time)!”

It’s a fine thing to know that pickets are abolished and there is nobody left in Aldershot to run in the intoxicated soldier save and except about 500 military and regimental police, who will carry on as usual.

It is a splendid tribute to the Commander-in-Chief’s faith in the rank and file—mostly file—that he withdraws the cold-footed and unemployed patrols, and leaves the young military gentlemen of Aldershot to their sense of honour and the “red cap.”

This, I gather from the eulogies that have been showered upon the Aldershot authorities, is the general sentiment of the public, but personally I have no enthusiasm for the man who takes the chain off the dog and omits to unmuzzle him.

“There was an officer of ours,” sez Smithy, “a young officer, who came to us from India, an’ went on with us to the Cape. He wasn’t a bad sort of feller, but he took a very serious view of things, especially morals. He was one of them fellers who thought the soldier wanted elevatin’, an’ he used to do his best to improve our minds. Started a‘botany ramble,’ an’ lots of fellers joined it. Nobby Clark was one. This was in India, an’ it was pretty hot walkin’.

“‘Here we have,’ sez the officer, ‘the cannabis indica, so called owin’ to its petals bein’ copratulated. It is mostly found in hot countries.’

“‘It is hot, sir,’ sez Nobby.

“‘An’ in dry soils,’ sez the officer.

“‘Like me, sir,’ sez Nobby.

“He only went out once, did Nobby. When he found that there wasn’t any free drinks attached he chucked it up, an’ so did the other chaps. Nobby said it improved his thirst more than his mind, an’ he couldn’t afford it.

“This officer (his name was Holly) had an habit of putting chaps on their honour—that’s what made me think about him. It was ‘on your honour, did you borrow Private Murphy’s blacking brushes?’ an’‘on your honour, is this your shirt?’ till the Adjutant, who happened to overhear one of these honourable conversa­tions, pulled him up sharp.

“‘You’ll wear out the honour of the “B” Company if you’re not careful, Holly,’ he sez.

“There was a bit of a dispute on about a razor that Fatty Green had lost.

“Fatty’s number was burnt into it, but when he found it again on Nobby’s shelf, it had been burnt out again, an’ you couldn’t tell which was a‘9’ an’ which was a ‘4.’ Nobby swore it was his: said he’d had it since the fourteenth of June.

“‘Have you had this razor for a year, on your honour?’ sez Holly, very solemn.

“‘No, on me shelf, sir,’ sez Nobby.

“‘Are you prepared to swear upon your honour?’

“‘I’m always prepared to swear, sir,’ sez Nobby, very earnest;‘on my honour I am.’

“That’s when the Adjutant came in.

“Umfreville—that’s the Adjutant’s name—was always ready to take a man’s word, but he never used to go about the business the same way that Holly did.

“‘Clark,’ he sez, ‘is that your razor?’

“‘Yessir,’ sez Nobby.

“‘Has it always been your razor?’

“‘No, sir,’ sez Nobby.

“‘Who did you borrow it from, an’ forget to return it to?’

“‘Private Green, sir, now you come to mention it.’

“‘An’ when did this razor accidentally fall on to the red hot poker and burn the numbers out?’

“‘Last week, sir,’ sez Nobby.

“‘Very well,’ sez the Adjutant, ‘you will be put under stoppages for a new razor for Private Green.’

“‘Yessir,’ sez Nobby. An’ there the matter ends.

“If you try the word of honour dodge with the soldier, he thinks it’s a new game, an’ plays it to the best of his ability—but any two-handed game’s a rottenly poor game when you hold all the two’s an’ three’s an’ four’s in the pack, an’ the other fellers got all the aces an’ kings an’ queens.

“Holly had all sorts of ideas for improvin’ the soldier. He wanted to make ’em take a pride in theirselves an’ that’s one of the reasons he started a dog show. He tried a flower show first, an’ Nobby got first prize for a beautiful rose tree in bloom, but he had to give it back because they found out afterwards he’d pinched the rose from the Botanical Gardens in Bombay an’ stuck it in some earth with a few leaves round it to make it appear natural.

“The dog show was better, because everybody had a dog, although the regulations was against more than two or three to a regiment.

“Holly gave five pounds in prizes, an’ the other officers put up a tenner between ’em.

“Holly wanted to divide the dogs into classes, thoroughbreds an’ half-breds, but the Adjutant, who knew more about soldiers dogs than Holly did, persuaded him to make it for one class only—No Breed.

“About this time, Nobby had a dog called ‘Rags,’ so called because, when he was layin’ down asleep, he looked like a door mat that hadn’t been shook for weeks.

“Nobby was very indignant when he found there was goin’ to be no prizes for thoroughbreds, because, accordin’ to Nobby, ‘Rags’ was one of the purest bred dogs that was ever born.

“‘His father was a pure bred Scotch Terrier,’ sez Nobby, ‘an’ his mother was a pure bred bull terrier, an’ if that don’t make him thorough-bred I don’t know what does.’

“Spud Murphy entered a little fox terrier, called ‘Spot’—a very uncommon name that Spud thought of hisself—an’ he reckoned that he’d take first prize in the‘no class’ division.

“For a week before the show all the fellers were busy gettin’ their dogs clean an’ fat. Nothin’ was too good for ’em. ‘Ginger’ Carter fed his on hard boiled eggs till he could hardly stand. Nobby gave ‘Rags’ the best of everythin’. Once in the middle of dinner, ‘Orderly Corporals’ sounded, an’ Corporal Hart, who was in charge of our room, had to get up ’an double as hard as he could to the orderly room. When he came back he looks round.

“‘Where’s my dinner?’ he sez.

“‘You finished it before you went, Corporal,’ sez Nobby, politely.

“‘Did I?’ sez the Corporal, puzzled. ‘That’s very rum. I still feel hungry. I could have sworn I left two big slices of meat on my plate. I suppose none of these dashed dogs have been prowlin’ about, have they? ’

“‘I couldn’t tell you,’ sez Nobby. ‘All I know is that my dog’s a vegetarian, an’ never eats nothin’ but fish.’

“Then some bloater paste disappeared off Spud Murphy’s shelf. He’d put it aside for tea, an’ when he went to look for it, it was gone.

“Spud was very wild, an’ went in search of Nobby. He found him under the verander watchin’‘Rags,’ an’ ‘Rags’ was lickin’ some brown stuff off his whiskers.

“‘You’ve pinched my bloater paste,’ sez Spud, very savage.

“Nobby was surprisingly mild.

“‘Say not so,’ he sez.

“‘There it is!’ sez Spud, wrathfully, ‘he’s chewin’ the cud of it.’

“‘That’s not bloater paste,’ sez Nobby, calm; ‘that’s brass polish that I’m givin’ him—to brighten him up!’

“What worried Nobby most was a remark he heard the adjutant drop—the adjutant was to be the judge—about the colour of the dogs.

“‘From what he said,’ sez Nobby gloomily, ‘he’s goin’ to judge how well a dog’s looked after by his cleanness,’ an’ that put ‘Rags’ out of court.

“‘Rags’ was one of them dogs that couldn’t keep clean if he tried. Me an’ Nobby spent the best part of one night washin’ him with a bar of carbolic soap an’ dryin’ him on Pug Wilson’s woolly towel. The next mornin’ ‘Rags’ wandered all through the cantonment lookin’ for a puddle to roll in, an’ found it.

“We washed him again, with another kind of soap (the corporal’s box was locked that night) an’ dried him on a sheet.

“He looked a perfect picture when we’d finished with him, an’ even Spud, who came in late, admitted he looked fine.

“Spud grumbled a bit about his sheets bein’ damp, but Nobby said it was in a good cause.

“‘When we washed him he shook hisself,’ sez Nobby, ‘an’ some of the water must have gone over your cot.’

“‘It seems to me,’ sez Spud, feelin’ his sheets, ‘as if somebody’s been usin’ ’em for towels.’

“‘Sleep in blankets,’ sez Nobby, ‘it’s healthier.’

“But all our trouble was for nothin’, for next momin’‘Rags’ turned up with a smile an’ fannin’ hisself with his tail as black as a sweep’s bride.

“‘He’s been down to the cavalry lines,’ sez Nobby in despair.

“The dog show was only two days off, an’‘Rags’ looked like a thousand to one chance, because the other dogs was in such good form, especially Spud’s dog (what he used to rub over with pipeclay every mornin’) an’ Nobby saw that somethin’ would have to be done. He thought an’ thought an’ thought, an’ at last he sez:

“‘I’ve got it!—we’ll dye him a colour that won’t show the dirt!’

“So me an’ Nobby went into the bazaar an’ saw a baboo chap, who now keeps a chemist’s shop.

“‘Dye?’ he sez, ‘what colour?’

“‘Somethin’ that won’t show the dirt, Bobajee,’ sez Nobby, ‘somethin’ blackish or brownish,’

“‘What is the material for which dyeing is desired?’ sez the baboo.

“‘A dog skin,’ sez Nobby, so the chemist chap got a powder out of one bottle an’ a powder out of another bottle an’ mixed ’em up.

“It cost us four annas, but, as Nobby pointed out, it was worth the money, for the first prize was worth twenty rupees.

“We didn’t touch ‘Rags’ till the night before the show, an’ then we caught him, an’ gave him a good wash. It took us some time to catch him, for ‘Rags’ was gettin’ a bit tired of the washin’ game, an’ as soon as he saw Nobby with a bit of rope he sort of pretended he was lookin’ for a friend an’ sneaked round the comer. We chased him for the best part of an hour, an’ when Nobby got him he gave him a welt that made him pen-an’-ink most piercin’ly.

“‘I’ll learn you!’ sez Nobby sternly. ‘Whatcher mean by runnin’ away from a friend that’s tryin’ to win you a prize, you ungrateful pie-dog?’

“We washed him most vigorous—poor‘Rags’ shiverin’ an’ lookin’ as if he wished he’d never been born.

“Then we dyed him. Nobby mixed the powders in hot water, an’ we sponged‘Rags’ over carefully an’ tied him up to a little kennel which Nobby had made behind the cook-house.

“Next momin’ Nobby went to look at him, an’ came back to breakfast very thoughtful. I didn’t see‘Rags,’ nor nobody else, because Nobby shut him up in the kennel for fear of his dirtyin’ himself.

‘‘‘He ain’t quite black yet,’ sez Nobby, ‘but I dersay he will be by the time the judgin’ starts.’

“The dog show was held in the gymnasium, an’ you never saw such a collection of ‘sooners’ an’ ‘may-be’s’ in your life. Each of ’em had a little ticket stuck on: Private Murphy’s ‘Spot’ and Private Jordan’s tiger spaniel‘Bill.’

“The most surprisin’ exhibit was Nobby’s. For we carried it in the kennel and stuck it up on the platform just as it was. Nobby had nailed two bars of wood across the front of the kennel, an’ all you could see of poor old ‘Rags’ was a pair of miserable eyes an’ the black tip of his nose.

“Nobby brought a card with him an’ tacked it over the kennel:


Private Clark’s
Greenland Lapdog,
“Ragski.”


“‘There’s nothin’ like a bit of swank,’ sez Nobby, ‘an’ everybody knows that racehorses who are called “Prince of Empire” on the course are called “Jim” in the stable.’

“The fellers was a bit puzzled.

“‘Is it “Rags?”’ sez Spud Murphy, tryin’ to peep inside.

“‘Keep your dial away from the menagerie,’ sez Nobby, ‘you’ll make him homesick.’

“‘Is it “Rags?”’ sez Spud.

“‘No,’ sez Nobby shortly, ‘it’s a new dog what’s just arrived from me brother in Greenland.’

“Spud sniffed.

“‘Me brother,’ sez Nobby firmly, ‘who’s in the Greenland Mounted Police—in the band,’ he sez, ‘sent me this dog yesterday.’

“‘I don’t believe it,’ sez Spud. ‘There ain’t been a post in since Wednesday—how did it come?’

“‘By telegraph,’ sez Nobby.

“All the officers came, an’ some of their wives, an’ they enjoyed themselves immense.

“‘What’s this?’ sez the adjutant.

“‘A bull-retriever,’ sez Fatty Green, prompt.

“‘Has he got any points?’ sez the adjutant, with his notebook in his hand, ‘because if he has you’d better tell me what they are—I can’t see any.’

“‘He’s a wonderful barker, sir,’ sez Fatty.

“Other chaps had dogs that was wonderful eaters an’ wonderful sleepers an’ they all got marks. Spud looked like takin’ the prize with‘Spot’ for the tricks he did.

“He could sit up an’ beg, an’ shoulder a rifle, an’ smoke a pipe, an’ say ‘Attention’ quite plain. In addition to which he was a wonderful barker, a wonderful sleeper, an’ a surprisin’ eater.

“Then the judges moved on to Nobby’s dog.

“‘Hullo!’ sez the adjutant, puttin’ up his eyeglass, ‘what’s this?’

“‘Greenland Poodle, sir,’ sez Nobby.

“‘Let me have a look at him,’ sez the adjutant.

“‘He’s very shy, sir,’ sez Nobby. ‘He never comes out in the daylight—bein’ a night dog.’

“‘Nonsense,’ sez the adjutant, ‘take those bars away an’ let him out.’

“Everybody gathered round to see Nobby’s new dog.

“‘I’d rather you judged him where he was, sir,’ sez Nobby. ‘He looks better in the dark, on my honour,’ he sez to Holly.

“But the adjutant shook his head.

“‘We’ll see this bashful creature,’ he sez, an’ very reluctant Nobby pulled the bars away an’ out steps ‘Rags.’

“You could have heard a pin drop for a minute, an’ then there was a yell that lifted the roof.

“‘Why, Why!’ gasps the adjutant, ‘the dashed dog’s bright green! ’

“‘Yessir,’ sez Nobby, very agitated, ‘that’s why he’s called a Greenland sheep dog, sir.’

“‘On your honour,’ sez Holly, very stem, ‘is that the dog’s natural colour? ’

“‘I won’t say on me honour, sir,’ sez Nobby, ‘but I’ll say I hope I may dye if it ain’t!’”</story>