<story title="A SUPPRESSED BOOK" date="1909">
“NOBBY CLARK,” said Private Smith in a tone of wondering admiration, “is a marvel. There used to be times when some of the things he did surprised me, but if Nobby come up to me to-day an’ produced an elephant out of his trousers’ pocket I should simply say‘Where did you pinch it?’

“Lots of people think Nobby ain’t exactly honest, but that’s a silly idea. Nobby wouldn’t take anything of value from anybody.

“‘It ain’t the worth of the thing, Smithy,’ he sez to me one day, ‘Its the pleasure of gettin’ it ‘Nobby is what I’d call a mug-finder, an’ when you have said that, you’ve said all that is to be said against him. His chief delight is to find a feller of a trustin’ nature an’ teach him to be careful in the future.

“There ain’t a single game that Nobby ain’t played. I remember once he filed a regimental razor into three parts, cut up a comb into three, fastened the bits of razors to the bits of combs, an’ sold ’em for two bob each. He called ’em‘Clark’s Safety Razor.’

“The rum thing about Nobby was that he never caught the real mugs. The silly chaps wasn’t bright enough to jump at Nobby’s ideas. It was always the fly fellers, who fancied themselves a bit, that got hurt when they run up against Nobby.

“When we was in Wynberg, after the war, Nobby got a bit sobered down by certain things that happened. For one thing, we lost too many good chaps to take a comic view of life, an’ then there was a certain affair with a girl in Johannesburg....

“Nobby didn’t really start to buck up till Cully Park joined the company, from ‘H’. We happened to be in the canteen one night when Bill Mason came in with his side arms—he stopped at the door to take ’em off—an’ brought the news. He’d been C.O.’s orderly an’ naturally he was what Nobby calls‘Oh Fay!’ with all that had been happenin’. For one thing he’d took battalion orders round to the colour-sergeants, so when he told us that Cully Park was transferred to ‘B’ Company we knew it was true.

“Nobody exactly understood what Cully had been in civil life, though once, when ‘H’ Company was ordered to parade for identification, we guessed. But the lady who lost the watch couldn’t pick him out, so the matter dropped.

“That sort of thing ain’t calculated to make a man popular in the army. It stands to reason that amongst the fellers who enlist you get lots of chaps who go into the service for the same reason. Other fellers fly the country, but mainly they’re detected very soon, an’ the army’s kept clear of the real bad classes.

“What made Cully rather unpopular in the Anchesters was his skill at cards. He was the luckiest feller in the world at that sort of game. It didn’t matter what happened—Cully won, mainly because he sat an’ sat till he did win, an’ after he’d skinned the company regularly for weeks on end‘H’ started a sort of anti-gamblin’ league, the idea of which was‘We don’t mind playin’ “nap,” but we don’t play with Cully.’

“It’s a surprisin’ thing, but as soon as Cully was barred the chaps lost all interest in cards. The horrible fascination of seein’ your money walk into Cully’s corner of the table was gone, an’ the game got so tame an’ ladylike that‘H’ Company took to playin’ ‘Coddam.’

“Gamblin’ is one of the things that soldiers mustn’t do in the Army, an’ there’s a hundred others. But if a feller wants to enjoy life he’s got to break dozens of regulations.

“Well, to get back to Cully.

“We found he’d been transferred to‘B’ at his own request, because ‘H’ was gettin’ a bit too slow. Nobby was rather thoughtful when he heard the news.

“‘It’s a serious thing for me, Smithy,’ he sez. ‘It’s competition, that’s what it is. We’ll have to settle Cully.’

“You see, Nobby had got a big idea for bringin’ out a book about the war, an’ gettin’ all the fellers to write somethin’ about their experiences in it.

“The book was already started an’ promised to be a big success.

“‘Every chap who writes somethin’ will buy half-a-dozen copies to send to his friends, explained Nobby. ‘A chap will always spend money to see his name in print.’

“He’d made fine progress, when Cully came, an’ he’d got a dozen experiences from various fellers, all ready for printin’.

“‘How me and Browny pinched a pig at Bloemfontein, by Tiny White.’

“‘A true story of my terrible adventures in the Transvaal, by Spud Murphy.’

“‘A thrilling tale of how me and a feller of the Wessex got into trouble with the military police in Pretoria,’ by Bill Mason.’

‘‘An’ things like that.

“‘Our chaps won’t have a penny piece by the time Cully’s done with ’em,’ sez Nobby, gloomily. ‘It’s a scandal.’

“So after what he said about Cully, callin’ him a daylight robber an’ a card-sharper, it was a little bit astonishin’ to see what Nobby did. For when Cully strolled into the canteen one evenin’, and sez, careless, “Who’ll have a little game at “nap?” Nobby was the first feller to say ‘I will.’

“It appears that Cully had arranged with Harry Young, ‘B’ Company’s storeman, for the use of the little bungalow, where our stores (blankets, spare rifles, an’ things) were kept. With blankets up to the winders., so that no light could show, a little party of six sat down to play‘nap.’

“The game started quietly, Nobby winnin’ a little an’ the other fellers winnin’ in their turn. Then things got brisker, an’ Nobby took two big ‘kitties.’ Cully didn’t seem to mind, he was as affable as possible. Then Nobby got another ‘nap’ home, an’ rose from the table.

“‘What’s up?’ sez Cully.

“‘I’ve got a bit of a headache,’ sez Nobby, gatherin’ in his winnin’s.

“‘It’ll soon pass off,’ sez Cully, shufflin’ the cards. ‘Sit down again an’ have a few more hands.’

“‘I’d rather not,’ sez Nobby. ‘You can’t be too careful with a holler tooth——’

“‘You said headache just now,’ sez Cully.

“‘Did I?’ sez Nobby. ‘I meant——’

“‘What you meant was,’ sez Cully, fiercely, “you’re goin’ to clear out with your winnin’s.’

“Nobby shook his head as he made for the door.

“‘You’re unjust, Cully.’ he sez, sadly.

“Next night Cully was on the watch, an’ after Nobby had brought a fat ‘nap’ home an’ got up sayin’ the room was a bit too close, Cully got up too.

“‘Look here,’ he sez, nastily, ‘you’ve just took six shillin’s out of the crowd.’

“‘Have I?’ sez Nobby. ‘I didn’t count it, but I’ll trust to your honesty.’

“‘Before you go,’ sez Cully, ‘let me ask you a question, man to man: in two nights you’ve took over a pound out of us, are you goin’ to give us a chance of winnin’ it back?’

“‘Man to man,’ sez Nobby, earnestly, ‘you shall have the chance to-morrer.’

“Next night Nobby turned up.

“‘I’ve brought some smellin’ salts,’ sez Cully, ‘in case Nobby’s took bad, an’ some carbolic acid for his holler tooth, an’ a bit of corn plaster in case his feet hurt.’

“‘Nobby smiled in an injured kind of way, an’ the play started.

“Luck was against him for a bit, but by-an’-bye he landed a‘nap’ hand, an’ follered it with another.

“As he gathered the money in he coughed very loud.

“‘What’s up now?’ sez Cully. ‘Got consumption? ’

“‘No,’ sez Nobby.

“‘Do you feel faint or anything?’ sez Cully.

“‘No,’ sez Nobby, coughing louder still.

“‘I never felt better in me life.’

“‘That’s all right,’ sez Cully, with a sort of relieved sigh.

“Just then came a gentle tap on the door, an’ Harry Young’s voice sez, ‘Is Nobby there?’

“‘Yes,’ sez Nobby.

“‘You’re wanted at once by the colour-sergeant,’ sez Harry. ‘You’d better run.’ Nobby got up with the air of a martyr, but Cully just glared at him.

“‘It’s a plant!’ he sez, very wild. ‘It’s a plant between you an’ Harry Young—that’s why you coughed, you big-footed blighter, to let him know you was winnin’.’

“‘I’ll see you to-morrer,’ sez Nobby, ‘in the football field, an’ you’ve got time between now an’ then to prepare yourself for another life.’

“‘I’ll fight you now!’ sez Cully, who was furious.

“‘Not now,’ sez Nobby, ‘not with all this money about me,’ he sez.

“When Cully cooled down he saw how silly the fightin’ idea was, an’ got out of it. But Nobby’s habit of goin’ away as soon as he won broke up the ‘nap’ party.

“First of all, Fatty Johnson follered Nobby’s example. Took a‘kitty’ of ten bob, an’ went orf into a faint an’ had to be assisted to his room. Then Spud Murphy, who’d been winnin’ steadily one night, got somethin’ the matter with his eyes an’ couldn’t see the cards properly, an’ when a feller named Nathan sprained his wrist whilst he was rakin’ in his winnin’s, Cully said it was time to shut up shop.

“But he never forgave Nobby.

“When Nobby came to him an’ asked him to write his experiences of the war, just to show there was no ill-feelin’, Cully wrote about six pages entitled: ‘A comical tale about Certain Parties who pretended they was ill, and the Colonel hearing about it, sent them to hospital, where they caught enteric fever and died in horrible agony.’

“Nobby said the title bein’ so long there was no necessity for the tale. He thought the story might spoil the title, so he cut the story out.

“Nobby got a printer feller in Wynberg to get the book out. It was to be called:


Gallant ‘B,’
or
How we Saved Great Britain an’ Ireland.


“Nobby had it ‘Great Britain’ at first, but Spud Murphy, who’s Irish, owin’ to his name, wouldn’t have anything to do with it unless the title was changed to ‘and Ireland.’ Nobby said Spud wasn’t Irish at all, but that he took his name from the gentleman Spud’s mother used to be housemaid to, but as Spud’s two bob was as good as anybody else’s he changed the title.

“That was the price the book was published at—two shillin’s. It was honestly worth fourpence of anybody’s money.

“Forty fellers wrote their experiences, an’ Nobby reckoned on each chap buyin’ three copies—one for his mother, one for his young lady, an’ one for the other girl.

“Nobby brought me a copy round.

“‘It’s a bit thin for two bob,’ I sez—it was about the size of Ideas, but not so interestin’. ‘Do you think they’ll pay two bob for it? ’

“‘I’m sure,’ sez Nobby.

“An’ it did seem as if he was right, because when we got to the canteen that night everybody came forward to ask when the book would be ready.

“‘I want my copy to send home,’ sez Cully.

“‘Only one copy?’ sez Nobby.

“‘Half-a-dozen, if you like,’ sez Cully.

“‘That’s how I like to hear you talk,’ sez Nobby, ‘an’ ’

“‘Of course,’ sez Cully, “all the chaps who’ve written bits will get free copies.’

“‘Eh?’ sez Nobby.

“‘Free copies,’ sez Cully. ‘That’s what’s always done—I asked a feller at the book-shop.’

“‘Don’t you go puttin’ that notion about,’ sez Nobby, very stern, ‘the books are two bob each, there’s no free list owin’ to the great demand.’

“A sort of silence fell on the multitude.

“‘What do we get for authorin’?’ sez Spud.

“‘You get,’ sez Nobby, slowly, ‘the credit; you get the satisfaction of hearin’ your relations say: “I never thought our Bill could write like that,” or words to that effect. You get the glory of seein’ all the lies you’ve told in print; you get famous in a manner of speakin’. You get——’

“‘Hold hard, Nobby,’ sez Spud. ‘What do you get?’

“‘I get the satisfaction of knowin’ I’ve done me duty,’ sez Nobby, highly virtuous.

“‘Don’t you get any money out of it?’ sez Cully.

“‘All the money I get,’ sez Nobby, ‘goes to charity,’

“Battle of Belfast‘I know,’ sez Cully. ‘I know all about charity—it begins at home,’ he sez, ‘your home.’

“The next day the printer delivered the books—three hundred of ’em.

“He was a very nice young chap, this printer, an’ was mightily struck on Nobby, an’ when Nobby came to him with a long face an’ told him that none of the chaps would buy the book owin’ to Cully puttin’ it about that the book was free to all who wrote in it, he was very sympathetic.

“Nobby tried hard to get the chaps to take copies, but Cully was here, there, an’ everywhere, tellin’ ’em that if they waited a bit they’d get it for nothin’, an’ then, suddenly, Nobby stopped tryin’ to sell.

“He walked into the canteen one night with a light step an’ a smile.

“‘Hullo,’ sez Spud, ‘have you found a mug?’

“‘Not till this very minute,’ sez Nobby, pleasantly.

“‘Have you found a buyer?’

“‘No,’ sez Nobby, rubbin’ his hands, ‘thank heavens, no!’

“At this all the chaps in the canteen pricked up their ears.

“‘What are you thankin’ heavens about,’ sez Cully.

“But Nobby only shook his head.

“‘There’s been a slight error in printin’ that book,’ he sez. ‘There’s a certain thing in it that oughtn’t to be in it—somethin’ that’ll cost me money.’

“‘I know!’ sez Cully, excitedly, ‘you’ve libelled somebody,’ but Nobby wouldn’t say.

“‘Look here, Nobby,’ sez Cully. I’ll buy a copy of that book.’

“‘You couldn’t buy a copy for a hundred pounds,’ sez Nobby, prompt.

“By the next night half the battalion had been to Nobby, offerin’ to buy a copy, but Nobby wouldn’t part.

“It was put about that it was the Colonel who was libelled, an’ all the chaps who owed Nobby a grudge tried to get hold of a copy.

“Cully sent a feller named Sambo—owin’ to his dark complexion—to Nobby, to get a copy.

“‘I’ll give you five bob for it,’ sez Sambo, an’ Nobby hesitated.

“‘I trust you as a friend,’ he sez, solemn. ‘Will you take your dying oath that you won’t show it to anybody?’

“‘I will,’ sez Sambo, eagerly, an’ Nobby handed him a copy. He let Harry Jackson have a copy for three bob, an’ Spud Murphy got one for 2s. 6d. Lots of other fellers came to him, an’ after he’d made ’em swear by this an’ that they’d keep the matter dark, he sold ’em copies.

“‘I’ve only got a few,’ he sez, ‘most of ’em are destroyed.’ Cully an’ Sambo spent all one night lookin’ for the libel.

“‘I’ll bet this is what it is,’ sez Cully, readin’ from Nobby’s account of the Battle of Belfast:


“General, Roberts ordered us to Advance.”


“‘He ought to have said “Lord Roberts,”’ sez Cully. ‘That’s the libel.’

“After a bit he found another libellous sentence:

“‘It was a dreadful sight. The Austretches prowled about the veld devouring our gallant men.’

“‘It’s libellous to say Ostritches eat humans,’ sez Sambo.

“There never was a book read as that book was read. Chaps who got it worked away at it quietly, an’ it wasn’t till they was all baffled, an’ started discussin’ the matter with each other, that it came out that every other man in the regiment had a copy, what he’d bought from Nobby secretly. Cully tackled Nobby in the barrack-room one day.

“‘About this book of yours,’ he sez.

“But Nobby put his fingers to his lips.

“‘Hush!’ he sez, very mysterious.

“‘Hush be blowed!’ sez Cully, wrathfully, ‘what I want to know is, what is there in the book that didn’t ought to be in?’

“‘Nothin’’ sez Nobby, very calm, ‘nothin’—now.’

“‘ Nothin’!’ sez Cully, scandalised.

“‘Not now,’ sez Nobby, ‘there was somethin’ in it.’

“‘When did you take it out?’ sez Cully.

“‘I didn’t take it out, sez Nobby. ‘You took it out.’

“‘Me?’

“‘You,’ sez Nobby, very placid, ‘you an’ the other chaps who bought it. My money was in that book, Cully!’ he sez, solemn. ‘Invested in it, but it’s out again—with profits,’ he sez.”</story>