<story title="THE BUGLERS" date="1908">
“WHEN you are called to a murder,” says Dr. Graham Grant, cold-bloodedly, “take with you paper and pencil, india-rubber, a tape measure, a lens, two microscopic slides, and a pair of old gloves.” Thus runs the police-surgeon’s emergency guide, but for my part, I could not imagine, were I the divisional surgeon of “H” Division, that I should do anything so methodical. Not nowadays. When I was a soldier and accepted sudden and violent death as part of the day’s work, I might have acted with the cool promptitude that this brilliant police-surgeon suggests.

For all that is tragic in military affairs is intimately connected with the Royal Army Medical Corps.

I once knew a band corporal of the 5th Fusiliers who was going to marry the prettiest girl in Aldershot. He invited me to the wedding, and a couple of days before the ceremony, when he and I sat together in the little soldiers’ club in North Camp, he took me into his confidence. We were chatting about football, I remember, when he broke off suddenly to tell me that he was the eldest son of the Tsar, and the bandmaster (to whom he had been sold as a boy) wars keeping him out of his inheritance.

I was politely interested. With a great display of secrecy he produced from a specially-constructed leathern sheath, which he had sown inside his trousers, a long amputating knife. I have no idea where he got it from. At the moment I was not curious, for we were almost alone. He informed me that he intended liberating himself from captivity that night. The band was to play outside the officers’ mess, and during the second piece (it was to be “The Mikado,” I remember) he would expe­ditiously despatch the bandmaster to another, and, I trust, a better world.

I parted from him with some relief.

That night six of us descended upon him suddenly, and he gave us all the fight we wanted. But we strapped him to a stretcher, and got him into the padded cell, and on the day fixed for his wedding he died of G.P., which is an abbreviation for General Paralysis of the Insane.

“It stands to reason,” said Smithy, “that there’s more, what I might call scope for that sort of thing in the army than outside. Each feller is a little bit of life nipped off short. You don’t know where his other life ended, or what it was, who his people were, or why he enlisted. When his relations come down to see him, you ain’t surprised if they turn up in a motor-car, but you ain’t surprised either if they turn up in drink an’ have to be chucked out the gate.

“The tragicest thing I saw for a long time was when a chap named Stone was expectin’ his rich aunt, what he’d stayed with when he was on furlough. A perfect lady she was. Had a greengrocer’s shop, two servants, an’ a musical-box—she gave him the musical box when he come away, an’ he sold it to Corporal Toms for ten bob. We waited for days an’ days to see her, an’ Stoney was braggin’ about how she had two houses of her own, an’ money in the bank besides. She did turn up after a bit. Came down with two tec’s, an’ pinched Stoney for stealin’ the musical box.

“I’ve seen other tragic things, such as Nobby bein’ ordered by the C.O. to pay back money to chaps—money that he’d honestly earned, an’ I’ve seen the real downright tragedy of war, an’ cholera, an’ other deadly diseases.

“But I’ve noticed that, however bad it is, there’s always a light side to the worst of tragedies, an’ there was one or two in the case of the drum-major’s daughter.

“When I joined the regiment in—well, I won’t gratify your curiosity by tellin’ you when I joined—she was a leggy girl, who used to run about barracks with her hair a-flyin’. She was pretty even then. A straight little nose, a pair of fine eyes, an’ a firm, full mouth. Her hair was the colour of brown that had been washed in gold, an’ hadn’t quite lost its brownness, an’ at the same time, hadn’t got rid of its goldishness.

“I noticed her, as a chap notices kids, but the next time I noticed her, which was a few years later, she’d got to that stage where she wasn’t a kid any longer, an’ wasn’t exactly a woman. Her father’s name was Curton—Drum-Major Curton—an’ her name was Cecila, an’ her friends called her Cissy. I didn’t have much to say to her. As you know, it is easier for a soldier to get into conversation with a princess than the daughter of a non-com. They don’t want to know anything below the rank of colour-sergeant, but they much prefer the sergeant-major.

“Our sergeant-major at this time was a feller named Bensonberg. That ain’t his real name, but if I called him Robinson, you’d probably get into trouble for libel.

“He was one of them dapper little chaps, all curled moustache, an’ mincin’ step, an’ his quarters smelt like a perfumery factory after there’s been a fire, an’ all the scents have got mixed up. He was one of the youngest S.-M.’s in the service, an’ he got his rank because, at the time the old sergeant-major died, he was the only colour-sergeant in the regiment who had a first-class certificate. He wasn’t a popular feller by any means. Partly because he’d been a colour-sergeant of‘H,’ he was tremendously down on ‘B’ company an’ of all the chaps in ‘B’ he disliked Nobby Clark worst.

“Nobby used to give imitations of him that was so life-like that you could almost smell the O-dee-Cologne.

“Nobby was on fatigue once, cleanin’ out the sergeant-major’s quarters, polishin’ the grate an’ scrubbin’ the stairs, an’ he said it was the most ladylike quarters he’d ever been in. The sergeant-major was the sort of chap that some kind of women go mad over—the kind of women that are fond of dogs an’ cats, an’ any kind of pet they can tie up in blue ribbon, an’ naturally when he put the dyin’-duck eye on Cissy he thought all the other entries would scratch, and it would be a walk-over.

“But there was a fellow in the regiment who was out for the second money, an’ that feller was a corporal in the Drums by the name of Stanford. The finest bugler in the regiment he was, an’ sometimes, when he took it into his head, he’d get up in the mornin’s an’ sound the‘Reveille,’ an’ the chaps would wake one another up to listen to him.

“He got to know Cissy in a curious way. She was a bit of a Tom-boy as a kid, an’ nothin’ would satisfy her, but she must learn to play the bugle, an’ it was Corporal Stanford who taught her down in the brickfield at Anchester.

“I don’t know how long the lessons went on, but it appears that Stanford taught her other things besides the bugle, an’ he learnt a few lessons from her. Her father was an’ easy-goin’, good-natured sort of chap, an’ he liked Stanford. So there wasn’t any obstacles put in the corporal’s way.

“Then the sergeant-major came along, and the scene was changed, as the poem sez.

“The sergeant-major was good business, from a marryin’ point of view, an’ the drum-major made it very clear to Cissy that it was better to be Mrs. Sergeant-Major, an’ live in the odour of Ess Bokay, than be Mrs. Corporal, an’ live in the odour of soap suds.

“You’d have thought that Cissy would have jumped at the chance, but bless your heart you can never tell what a woman’s going to do when there’s a man in the business, an’ it’s perfectly impossible when there’s two men.

“From what I heard afterwards she told the old man that she wouldn’t marry the sergeant-major if he was the last man in the world. That it was corporal or nothin’ for her. The drum-major was a very religious chap, so he hiked down his Bible an’ proved to her that children that didn’t obey their parents was in for a hot time, but she said that if it was no hotter than Poona an’ the corporal was there, she didn’t mind. The old man was terribly upset, an’ sent for the corporal.

“‘What have you been teachin’ my girl,’ he sez.

“‘The “Last Post,”’ sez Stanford, ‘“Officers’ Call,” “Fall In,” “No Parade”——’

“‘Never mind about that,’ roars the drum-major, ‘what have you been teachin’ in the love-makin’ line?’

“‘The Reveille,’ sez the corporal prompt. He was a smart feller with his tongue; almost as smart as Nobby, but not quite so glib.

“Try as he did, the drum-major couldn’t get his girl to change her mind, an’ when the sergeant-major started talkin’ airily about the weddin’ day—he took a lot for granted—the old man blurted out the truth.

“‘What?’ sez the sergeant-major, horror-struck. ‘Won’t have me? Why, the girl’s mad!’

“He wasn’t as much upset as he was amused. He didn’t think that any girl in her senses could refuse him. When he found out that Cissy had already fixed her mind on another chap he nearly had a fit.

“He was at Chunpore at the time, an’ it was just before the rains.

“‘I’ll see this corporal,’ he sez, in a rage, an’ marches back to his quarters. He sent for Stanford, an’ Stanford came.

“Me an’ Nobby happened to be near the gate of the cantonment half an hour later, when up came Corporal Stanford in walkin’-out kit, lookin’ a little white, but quite calm.

“‘Nobby,’ he sez, quiet, ‘I’ve done in Smellin’ Salts.’

“‘Go on!’ sez Nobby.

“‘I have,’ sez the corporal; ‘he began talkin’ unpleasantly about a lady friend of mine—no names mentioned—an’ I laid him out. He ain’t much hurt.’

“‘I’m sorry,’ sez Nobby.

“‘I’m goin,’ sez the corporal. ‘If you should see the lady in question tell her I’ve gone. Tell her that I’ve got a friend in the town who’ll hide me, an’ that when she’s ready, I’m ready.’

“With that he shook hands with us an’ left.

“Ten minutes later, when the sergeant-major recovered his conscience an’ picked hisself out of his cosy corner, there was the biggest row in barracks you ever heard. Where was Corporal Stanford? Nobody had seen him go. Not the corporal who was on the gate (who was a pal of his), not Nobby, not me.

“They searched the barracks from end to end; they sent picquets through the bazaar an’ native quarter, through the European quarter, an’ through the town from end to end—but Corporal Stanford was gone.

“Cissy was frantic when Nobby an’ me found an excuse to go over to the married quarters, an’ the way he broke the news to her was the cleverest an’ artfullest way you could imagine.

“We went over to ask for the drum-major, knowin’ that at that particular moment he was listening to the S.-M.’s horrid tale of how Stanford had knocked him down when he wasn’t lookin’, an’ jumped on his chest.

“Luckily the girl came to the door, an’ not her mother.

“‘I’ve got something to say to you,’ sez Nobby, solemn.

“‘Is it about Jack?’ she sez, quick—her eyes was red with cryin’.

“‘Who’s Jack?’ sez Nobby.

“‘Corporal Stanford,’ she sez.

“‘Yes, it’s about Jack,’ sez Nobby, ‘though I never knew his name was Jack,’ sez Nobby. ‘Most corporals is named Bill, an’ sergeants Adolphus, an’ colour-sergeants——’.

“‘Yes, yes,’ she sez, impatient. ‘Tell me about Jack.’

“‘Well, Jack’s gorn,’ sez Nobby; ‘gorn for ever,’ he sez, very solemn.

“The girl went white.

“‘For ever?’ she faltered.

“‘Perhaps,’ sez Nobby, who always likes to work up a sensation, ‘perhaps never to return.’ When he’d got her nearly faintin’, he delivered his message, an’ we just managed to reach the barrack square in time to avoid the drum-major goin’ home again.

“It appears from what I heard from the chaps in the ‘drums’ that Corporal Stanford was a savin’ kind of feller, an’ he’d put away close on a couple of hundred pounds in his service. It wasn’t all savings, because he’d come into a little bit of money soon after he enlisted.

“‘He’ll be able to get out of India all right,’ sez Nobby, ‘but he won’t go without the girl.’

“That’s the idea the drum-major had, too, for he watched his daughter like a mouse, an’ she hadn’t a chance to send a note to the corporal, or receive one from him. One night me an’ Nobby was returning from the canteen talkin’ matters over, when suddenly Nobby stopped and laid his hand on my arm.

“Very clear, from the direction of the town, came a bugle call.

“Letters!’ whispers Nobby. ‘That’s the post bugle—somebody is sayin’ “I’ve sent you a letter”—an’ I’ll bet I know who that somebody is!’ Nobody else seemed to hear the call, an’ we waited. We waited ten minutes, then from the other side of the square came a sharp bugle call:

“‘The “Standfast!”’ sez Nobby, admiringly. ‘That girl’s got sense!’

“Then we heard the shout of the sergeant of the guard asking who in the name of various gentlemen an’ places sounded the‘Standfast.’

“We could have told him, but we didn’t. Nothin’ occurred the next day or the next night. The picquets were called in from town, an’ the general idea was that Corporal Stanford had cleared.

“But Nobby an’ me knew better.

“I don’t think Cissy could have ever got the letter the corporal said he was going to send her, because, just before the tattoo on the second night, when the drums was actually on the square, waiting to sound off the ‘First Post,’ somebody in the neighbourhood of the married quarters sounded

the exact meaning of which is ‘Come for orders.’

“Whilst everybody was in a state of confusion owing to this unexpected call, the bugle went again:

“‘That’s the officer’s dinner call,’ sez Nobby, wonderingly, an’ we heard the far away bugle say ‘All right,’ as plain as plain, for Stanford could make a bugle talk.

“But we couldn’t understand the ‘Come for orders,’ nor yet the ‘Officers’ mess’ call. It puzzled Nobby considerable, an’ I know he lay awake in bed thinkin’ it out.

“As a matter of fact I found out the meaning first. The next night was guest night at the mess, when the officers invite their civilian pals to dinner.

“There’s a private road to the officer’s mess that’s only opened on guest night. It’s usually filled with carriages, because, as everybody knows, the Anchesters is one of the most popular regiments in the Army. It was just after the dinner bugle had sounded, an’ when the band was playing the first selection, that me an’ Nobby, who had strolled round to the entrance of the private road, saw a carriage drive up, an’ instead of turnin’ into the carriage-way, draw up a little further along the main road. There was a man inside.

“We waited, knowin’ it was Stanford, who was ‘come for orders.’

“We hadn’t long to wait, for bye-an’-bye a girl came flyin’ down the drive, an’ Stanford jumped out to meet her. He swung her into the gharri, an’ off they drove like the wind, just as the old man an’ the sergeant-major came pantin’ up....

“They got out of India all right, air I’m told she made him a splendid wife, an’ that they settled down in Canada—so there’s nothin’ tragic in that. Where the tragedy part comes in was when we was all standin’ lookin’ in the direction the gharri took, out of the darkness came a bugle call, an insultin’ bugle call, for it told the sergeant-major that the whole thing was the girl’s own idea.

“‘I called him, I called him,’ sez the bugle.

“‘I’ll take my oath she did,’ sez the drum-major, ‘an’ he’d have been a fool not to come.’”</story>