<story title="PIKEY’S LUCK" date="1908">
I ASSOCIATE Smithy with many Christmases. With a Christmas on the bleak wind-swept slopes of the little hill, whereon is perched the sinister bulk of No. 2 magazine; with a Christmas spent under the blazing sun where the Modder comes swirling to the Riet River; with a memorable Christmas in Anchester, and with a Christmas—another war-like Christmas—sitting patiently in a lonely blockhouse between De Aar and Nauwpoort. When I think of Christmas in the army, I think of garlanded rooms, of admirable and praiseworthy mottoes covering the walls, of centrepieces and floral designs carried out in bayonets and flags; of “Success to the regiment” over the door, and “Good Luck to the Officers” over the fireplace; of coal-boxes swathed in crinkled paper, and the bare walls of the barrack-room hidden behind a screen of greenery and holly.

“Christmas takes people in different ways,” said Smithy, reflectively, “with some it’s ‘How are you, ole feller, come an’ have a drink,’ an’ with others it’s‘Don’t you wish me a Merry Christmas or I’ll give you a dig in the neck.’

“As a general rule, though, Christmas brings out all the best qualities in a chap; he can drink more an’ eat more, an’ lots of people who usually want to fight after their tenth gallon change their habits an’ only want to cry. It’s called seasonable greetin’s. There’s always lots of amusement, too, about Christmas in barracks. There’s the gettin’ ready, the decoratin’, the paper-chain makin’, an’ the wonderin’ whether ‘Greasy’ Sanders, the cook, will keep sober. An’ there’s generally a sing-song after dinner, an’ a bit of a dance at night, an’ for them who want to go out of barracks there’s gen’rally a supply of civilian friends. Then there’s always plenty to eat an’ drink, an’ cigars for them that want ’em, or are strong enough to smoke ’em—good cigars, too, that you couldn’t buy under seven for a shillin’, an’ whisky, an’ other Christmas spirits.

“But, as I’ve remarked, different chaps have different ways, an’ what’s more than that, different Christmases perduce different feelin’s.

“I remember one year when we was in Aldershot, when Christmas fell in proper Christmas card weather. Snow on the ground, an’ holly in bloom, an’ the old church bells a-ringin’. An’ somehow all the chaps got taken up with the Christmas feelin’ in the air, an’ tried to act accordin’.

“‘I feel proper good this mornin’,’ sez Nobby, when he got up. ‘I feel at peace with me feller man. A Merry Christmas to you, Spud,’ he sez, nicely.

“‘The same to you, Nobby,’ sez Spud Murphy.

“‘Has any friend seen my blackin’ brushes?’ sez Nobby, lookin’ under his cot.

“‘I saw friend Taylor usin’ ’em yesterday,’ I sez.

“‘Friend Taylor is welcome to anything I’ve got that I don’t happen to want,’ sez Nobby, ‘but at this present moment I feel like bitin’ friend Taylor’s ear.’

“In fact, the day started so pleasantly that I was a bit doubtful in my mind whether I didn’t ought to get out of barracks before the row started.

“The whole regiment was shakin’ hands an’ invitin’ one another home to meet the old people, an’ Spud Murphy an’ Nobby sang a duet about a kid that got lost in the snow, and had nowhere to go, no mother to help him, in the grave she lay low, lorst in the wide world was pore little Joe, or words to that effect.

“About seven o’clock the good-fellership began to get frayed around the edge an’ baggy at the knees, an’ when Nobby asked Spud for the tenth time to come an’ spend a Sunday at home with his rich relations, Spud said ‘No’ very sharp.

“‘Why not, ole comrade?’ sez Nobby.

“‘Because,’ sez Spud, ‘I’m very particular where I go.’

“Nobby was so took back that he hadn’t anything to say—for a minute.

“‘Christmas-time is Christmas-time.’ sez Spud. ‘but I’ve got to draw a line somewhere.’

“‘This bein’ what I might call a festive season,’ sez Nobby, takin’ his coat off, ‘I’m goin’ to celebrate the day by killin’ the fatted calf. You,’ he sez, ‘bein’ the calf.’

“The best pleasures of life,” philosophised Smithy, “come in a manner of speakin’ unexpected. There’s nothin’ worse than making preparations to amuse yourself; plannin’ this an’ that for weeks in advance, because when you’ve got everything fixed up, it’s ten to one that it rains, or someone’s forgot the corkscrew.

“Similarly, when a chap’s lookin’ forward to some ‘do’ or other with as much pleasure as a tramp looks forward to a cold bath, it’s pretty sure to turn out the time of his life.

“There was a feller of ours called Pikey, who was chiefly remarkable for being a descendant of the original Jonah wot the fisherman used for whale-bait in the good old times.

“Everybody used to steer clear of Pikey because of his unluckiness. He was the sort of cove who got mumps two days before his furlough was due, an’ had to go into hospital. If he was on guard there was sure to be a rough house; when he came aboard the ship had the worst voyage she’d ever had; an’, takin’ one thing with another, Pikey’s name was trouble.

“Chaps wouldn’t walk with him for fear of slates blowin’ off the roof on to their heads, an’ as sure as Pikey ever played football someone would be badly injured.

‘‘If we met Pikey out in town we used to turn down a street quick, an’ naturally this sort of thing got on Pikey’s nerves. He challenged two or three chaps to fight, but nobody would take him on for fear of gettin’ accidentally killed.

“Just before Christmas, 1900, the battalion was sent down from the Transvaal to hold the line between De Aar an’ Norport. The colony was full of commandoes wanderin’ from town to town, and British columns wanderin’ after ’em.

“To prevent the Boers from losing themselves we’d put up a barbed wire fence for about three hundred miles along the line, an’ armour-plated summer-houses at regular intervals. ‘B’ company held the 29th Section, an’ me an’ Nobby, Spud Murphy, Pug Wilson, Jonah Pikey, an’ a dozen other fellers, beside a sergeant an’ a corporal, was told off to No. 49 Blockhouse.

“It wasn’t exactly a cheerful kind of prospect for Christmas. The scenery was mostly railway line an’ bare plain, with some blue hills miles an’ miles away in the distance; an’ the weather was blazin’ hot. In the daytime the blockhouse, bein’ made of tin, was like an oven, an’ in the night-time like a bloomin’ refrigerator. We knew the kind of place we was going to.

“As soon as we found out Pikey was comin’ with us, Nobby an’ one or two other chaps handed in the names of their next-of-kin.

“‘If anything happens to me,’ sez Nobby, very gloomy, ‘you can have my kit, Smithy. There’s four pairs of socks, a new pair of boots, an’ a brand new razor that I picked up at Modder River. Give my love to all at home, an’ tell ’em I died like a soldier.’

“After we’d been posted we was busy for a couple of days makin’ things ship-shape. We cleaned out the blockhouse (the Wigshires had been holdin’ it before we come), an’ Pug Wilson painted a board, ‘Anchester Villa’ to put up in front. Then we fixed up spring guns for brother Boer, an’ dug two trenches full of broken glass for them to fall into, and put ‘Welcome’ in little white stones in front of each trench.

“Altogether, the first two days passed quicker than you’d think.

“Every day a visitin’ picquet with an officer in charge used to come along to see how we got along, an’ to take reports.

“Naturally, all the other blockhouses was very anxious to know what was happenin’ at ‘49,’ owin’ to our havin’ Pikey with us, an’ when they found out, day by day, that nobody was shot or had sunstroke, they were a bit disappointed. On Christmas Eve the visitin’ picquet brought us a bit of news.

“‘Old Viljoen is comin’ this way,’ sez Jerry Jordan—he was one of the picquet—‘an’ it looks as if you chaps are goin’ to have a merry Christmas.’ He looks at Pikey an’ shakes his head. ‘I wouldn’t be in “49” for a bloomin’ pension,’ he sez; ‘not with old Pikey,’ he sez.

“When the picquet had left, Nobby had a talk with me.

“‘Smithy,’ he sez, serious, ‘here’s three days passed an’ old Pikey’s done nothin’. He ain’t shot anybody by accident, he ain’t set fire to the blockhouse, he ain’t mixed hisself up in one of them spring guns—I’m gettin’ nervous.’

“‘P’raps his luck’s turned; everybody’s luck turns at Christmas,’ I sez, but Nobby shook his head.

“Christmas Day came up in a white blaze of hot sunshine. There was not a single thing you touched that didn’t blister you. All the hills was a-quiverin’, an’ over the plains you could see extr’ordinary woods an’ lakes made by the mirage.

“We’d got a bit of Christmas up, a bit of holly over the door, an’‘God Bless our Home,’ done by Pug Wilson on a biscuit-box, an’ a few paper chains to give the house a tone. An’ they’d sent us along extra rations, a couple of fowls an’ a bottle of beer a man. Nobby made a Christmas puddin’ out of a receipt he found in a paper, an’ it was very nice after the water was squeezed out of it.

“Nobby said there was nothin’ in the receipt about tyin’ it up in a cloth. As a matter of fact, it wasn’t at all bad after we put it through a strainer.

“After dinner we had a sing-song. Nobby an’ Spud sung their annual about pore little Joe out in the snow, nowhere to go, an’ Sergeant Perkins recited, in a gentlemanly way, about a pauper refusin’ his puddin’ only last Christmas Day, an’ Pug Wilson gave imitations of Irvin’ in a way that was wonderfully life-like. Nobody had ever seen Irvin’, so that made it all the more pleasant.

“Then Pikey gave an imitation of a clog-dance, an’ we all drew back for fear somethin’ would happen; that he’d kick up a stone an’ blind somebody, or disturb a snake, or draw the enemy’s fire. But nothin’ came along to upset the harmony of the meetin’.

“In fact, when we paraded at sunset for guard, Nobby said it did look as if Pikey’s luck had taken the first turnin’ to the right. Guard mountin’ at a blockhouse isn’t like guard mountin’ at home. For one thing, we dressed pretty well as we liked, an’ the main consideration was to see that your rifle was oiled, an’ your ammunition handy.

“An’ it was different in this respect, that everybody’s on guard punctually although only a certain number are told off for sentry duty. Pikey’s relief was the easiest, ten till twelve an’ four till six. Half the time of his second relief most of the chaps are awake, an’ half the time of his first relief they haven’t gone to sleep. We took no risks with Pikey.

“We’d expected to have a fairly busy night owin’ to Commandant Viljoen bein’ in the neighbourhood, and at eight o’clock that night a telephone message came through from headquarters to say that Viljoen had been turned northward by Henniker’s Column, and we settled down for a quiet night.

“I’d just dozed off, when I woke suddenly to feel Nobby pressin’ my hand.*

* One of the dodges learnt by the British soldier in South Africa is this effective method of waking a man without startling him into an outcry. Press the hand and increase the pressure, and the sleeper will awake noiselessly.

“‘What’s up?’ I whispered.

“‘Listen!’ he murmured.

“I strained my ears an’ then I heard click-clock—click-clock very faintly.

“‘Firin’,’ sez Nobby, under his breath; ‘an’ the question is: What in——is Pikey doin’ not to give the alarm.’

“I was reachin’ out my hand to touch the sergeant when Nobby caught it.

“‘For God’s sake, wait,’ he whispers; ‘there’s only two things that Pikey can be; dead’s one, an’ asleep’s the other. Get outside as quietly as you can.’

“As silent as I could, I picked up my rifle an’ bandolier, an’ got outside. Nobby was with me in a second.

“There was no sign of Pikey, but there was a sign of somethin’ else, for not two hundred yards away you could see a lot of shadders movin’ across the veldt. There was no noise, for they were keepin’ to the soft bed of a little dried-up river.

“‘Pikey first,’ sez Nobby, an’ walked round to the other side of the blockhouse.

“There we found Pikey—Pikey the Jonah. On the flat of his back he lay a-sleepin’ as calm an’ as comfortable as if it was Sunday mornin’ at home.

“‘Get up, you worm!’ hissed Nobby, an’ Pikey opened his eyes an’ said, “Merry Christmas.”

“I couldn’t see quite plain, because we only had starlight, but I fancy he opened his eyes, an’ then grunted an’ turned over an’ went to sleep.

“Nobby took a kick at him that woke him up with a yell, an’ just at that minute I raised my rifle an’ fired at the shadows on the veldt.

“‘Guard, turn out!’ I shouted, an’ I heard a scramble inside the blockhouse.

“Nobby an’ I let fly together an’ dropped down to cover, for the Boers are pretty nippy when it comes to that sort of thing. All through that Christmas night we lay tucked up against the sandbag entrenchment, firin’ till the barrels of our rifles was scorchin’ hot. The telephone wire had been cut, so we could get no news from headquarters.

“There was another blockhouse a mile an’ a half away, an’ firin’ was goin’ on there—it was their fire that Nobby had heard. I heard the sergeant say, ‘It’s Viljoen doublin’ back,’ an’ I knew how serious it was, for we’d been warned an’ threatened as to what would happen to us if we allowed Viljoen to get across the lines.

“‘What I want to know,’ sez the sergeant, between the firin’, ‘is how these chaps got so close to us without the sentry givin’ an alarm.’

“‘It’s a dark night, sergeant,’ sez Nobby.

“‘Dark be damped,’ sez the sergeant; ‘all night’s are dark, ain’t they?’

“There wasn’t much talk after this.

“The Boer Intelligence Department ought to have gold medals, for what they didn’t know wasn’t worth knowin’. They knew that ‘49’ was weakly held, an’ they turned all their fire on to us. If they could smash us up they could get across the line with their convoy, an’ their fire was terrific.

“A chap of ours named Moley was the first to go down; shot through the lung, he went down all of a heap at my side. Then the sergeant was killed, an’ fell without a word.

“Nobby closed up and took poor Moley’s place.

“‘If ever I get out of this,’ he sez, ‘I’ll make Jonah sorry he ever gave up the whale business.’

“Corporal Thom was the next to go—he was lookin’ over the trench with his night glasses an’ Nobby pulled him down. He was a well-educated sort of youngster, an’ he hadn’t much experience.

“He shook Nobby off, an’ rose again. He leant over the sandbags for a long time without movin’, till Nobby said:

“‘Corporal, come down out of that, for the Lord’s sake,’ and gave him a tug.

“Then he came down all of a heap, for he was stone dead, an’ must have been shot the moment he went up.

“All the chaps were takin’ the fire quite coolly; Spud Murphy was singin’ a little Irish song to himself— his Irish blood always came out at times like this—an’ Pug Wilson was sayin’ what a good job it was it wasn’t rainin’.

“Only Pikey lost his head. He was whimpering and moanin’.

“‘I can’t stand this much longer,’ he sez.

“The bullets were patterin’ against the blockhouse like hail.

“All this time we’d been holdin’ the trench outside the blockhouse, but the fire got so hot that the other corporal, Higgs, ordered us to take shelter inside, an’ we crept inside one by one so that our fire shouldn’t die down.

“We’d hardly got inside before the Boers got a seven-pounder into action.

“The first shell went shriekin’ overhead, an’ the second went wide.

“But the third hit the roof an’ carried part of it away.

“The fourth killed the corporal an’ we was reduced to six men—reckonin’ Pikey.

“Then I think Pikey must have gone off his head.

“‘I’m a Jonah, a cursed Jonah!’ he yelled, an’ sprang from the little manhole where we’d crawled in.

“Before we could stop him he was through.

“Through the loopholes we saw him scramble down into the trench an’ up on the other side, an’ he stood there hesitating for a bit, as though he couldn’t make up his mind what he was goin’ to do.

“Then a most wonderful thing happened. For as he stood with not a bullet touching him, a dazzling white light fell on him, just as though he was on a stage an’ a limelight had suddenly been turned on. Clear an’ as plain as daylight he stood, for friend an’ foe to look at.

“He realised his danger in a second, an’ tried to run out of the circle of light, but it follered him an’ follered him all along the edge of the bank as he stumbled an’ ran.

“Then he stopped suddenly and faced the light, covering his eyes with his hands.

“That’s how poor old Jonah Pikey died, an’ that’s how we found him when the armoured train came up to us.

“It was the searchlight from the train that was the death of Pikey.

“The light was intended to show us where to fire, an’ to dazzle the enemy, an’ it only shows how Pikey’s bad luck held out to the last.”</story>