<story title="A SOLDIER AND A MAN" date="1909">
SOMETIMES, on cold dark mornings, when a carpet of snow lies on the ground, and white flakes come whirling through the air, I wake of a sudden, with the echo of a far-away bugle call in my ears. Long-drawn notes, sad and plaintive, come faintly from a distant guard-room, and I sit up in bed yawning, and reach up to the shelf above my head for my morning pipe....

But there is no shelf.... No muffled voice from the corporal’s bed tells me, indelicately but tersely, to “show a leg.” There is no pattering of bare feet upon a bare floor, or the clang and crash of closing bed cots; nor the sleepy grumbling of the men. Sometimes my hand mechanically gropes for my slippers—part of my unofficial kit—and missing them, I call upon Nobby Clark to return them instanter, or take the chance of a plug in the eye. But alas! the indignant denial of Nobby Clark comes not, nor is Smithy’s protesting voice raised. Instead, comes a discreet knock upon my bed­room door and the voice of my hired servant, “Your tea, sir.” Then I know that I have been dreaming, and that this is not Maidstone or Aldershot or Anchester; and no uniformed coat awaits me. “There’s no parade to-day”—no fatigue, no orderly man—nothing but the humdrum of civilian life.

Let me say this of the private soldier in all earnest­ness, before, for a while, I take farewell of Smithy and Nobby Clark:

He is the whitest and the best man on God Almighty’s earth.


In my day I have achieved some little notoriety, accomplished things that have momentarily enlarged my hat size, but of all accomplishments of which I am proud this stands first: That I was a private soldier, and shared the fellowship and friendship of private soldiers.

If he has faults, they are the faults he shares in com­mon with the rest of humanity—his virtues rank with the virtues of the Olympians.

“Soldiers,” said Smithy reflectively, “are different to other people, an’ I’ve never yet understood why. It’s probably somethin’ to do with the uniform. It’s the authority an’ the responsibility. I once knew a chap by the name of Grover who was the mildest, kindest-hearted fellow in the world till they went an’ made a G.M.P.* of him, an’ that changed his whole nature. Most ferocious he was, an’ would have strangled a baby if it interfered with him in the execution of his duty.

*  Garrison Military Police.

“Then we had another feller who came from Poplar way, who used to think the world began at Hammersmith an’ ended at Cannin’ Town. But he wasn’t in the regi­ment three months before he was the most geographical chap that ever was. What with hearin’ fellers talkin’ about India, and other fellers about Egypt, an’ what with lookin’ the places up on the map, he got to be the leadin’ authority on the subject of Where-is-it? It was, ‘When I was in Burmah in ’98,’ an’‘That reminds me of the time I was at Doolali an’ got the “tap,” although he’d never been out of England at that time.

“He would stand at the bar, an’ dippin’ his fingers into other people’s beer, used to draw little wet maps on the counter to show the rout he took when he was marchin’ through Africa to the relief of What’s-his-name.

“‘We started orf from Cape Gadget, as it might be here,’ he sez, ‘an’ leavin’ Lake Oogar on the left——’

“‘You’ll be leavin’ part of your ’ear on the floor if you put your fingers in my beer again,’ sez Nobby.

“‘It’s a map of me travels,’ sez Day—that was the chap’s name.

“‘Then put in another little bit,’ I sez, ‘showin’ the rout to the hospital from the canteen an’ the rout to the cemetery from the hospital, an’ a little tiny cross to show where they’ll plant you, an’ a bit of an epitaph:


“‘Here lies Private William Day,
Who very sudden passed away,
He messed about with Smithy’s beer,
An’ that’s the reason he is here.’


“I don’t doubt at all that it was the uniform that turned old Day into an explorer. It’s the same way through all the ranks. A lance-stripe turns a decent soldier into a pryin’ policeman, two stripes makes him take up fret­work an’ other useless hobbies, three stripes makes him waltz an’ go courtin’, four stripes makes him fat, and so on.

“It is,” said Smith, solemnly, “one of those extra­ordinary things that can’t be explained—like coincidences.

“After the war, as I’ve told you about twenty times, we was stationed at Wynberg, an’ very glad most of us was to get down to the loveliest part of Africa, where there were trees an’ flowers, an’ great grey mountains, an’ the everlastin’ scent of firs.

“The war made a big difference to Nobby, for reasons already stated. He was quieter an’ gentler, an’ didn’t try his games on like he used to—except now an’ again, just to see if his right hand had lost its cunnin’.

“He took to readin’ books, an’ generally got so lady­like that Spud Murphy took it into his head that he’d lost his dash, an’ was quite saucy to Nobby.

“‘The fact of it is,’ sez Spud, “Nobby’s past his prime. It stands to reason that a chap can’t always be fightin’ fit, an’ I think I’ll go an’ talk over a matter of five bob I lent him before the war.’

“To everybody’s everlastin’ surprise, Nobby remem­bered havin’ borrowed it, an’ returned it at once, an’ Spud come back to the canteen quite hypnotised.

“‘He’s not only lost his dash,’ sez Spud, ‘but he’ lost ’art, an’ this is where I go an’ remind him about certain statements he made about my face havin’ been run over by a commissary wagon.’

“So over he went again, an’ found Nobby readin’ the life of a feller who started at the bottom of the tree, arrived in London with a half-crown, an’ by careful attention to business, left the city owin’ hundreds of pounds.

“By-an’-bye, back comes Spud, jubilant.

“‘Nobby’s withdrawn everything!’ he sez, quite excited.

“I was astounded.

“‘Did you pay him any money?’ I sez.

“‘No!’ sez Spud, ‘it was done spontaneous, in a manner of speakin’.’

“Now, the rum thing was that Nobby wasn’t depressed or upset, or gloomy—he was just quiet.

“I didn’t say much to him myself because I’d got an idea that I knew what was happenin’, an’ as things turned out I was right.

“‘One day he sez to me: ‘Smithy, I’ve had a letter from somebody who’s sailin’ for England to-morrow—she—she wants me to go down to the ship an’ see her off.’

“I think I knew who that somebody was. There was a Dutch girl once, as pretty as a picture....it was in Johannesburg, you remember*....an’ she joined her brother’s commando dressed as a boy an’ was wounded... then she went down to the coast, an’ disappeared out of our lives.

* Smithy’s Love Affair.

“‘You’re goin’, I suppose?’ I sez, but Nobby shook his head w’ith a little smile.

“‘No,’ he sez, shortly, ‘what’s the good of me goin’? Who wants to see Private Clark in his red coat?’

“‘Have you written to say you won’t go?’ I asked, an’ he shook his head again.

“‘I’ve never written to her,’ he said, simply, an’ then he went on—‘Smithy, chaps like you an’ me are fools. We’re fools from the day we enlist to the day we get our “tickets.” We fool away our time, an’ we fool away our lives. If I’d given my time to a little study an’ tried to make myself a better scholar, I could have written to her, but—but I’m ashamed to write. You know what my fist is, an’ what my spellin’ is? She only knows me as a man—please God, she’ll never discover what a lout I am.’

“He drew a long breath.

“‘There’s a great big gulf betwixt her an’ me. I know her people are rich, an’ that she’s a lady—an’ I know what I am; a plain T.A., the son of plain people who never owned a hundred pounds between ’em.’

“He was silent for a while, an’ I could think of nothin’ to say, for what he’d told me was truth.

“‘No,’ sez Nobby, quietly. ‘I’m off the map so far as she is concerned. I’m not such a conceited fool as to imagine anything else. We’ll go into town to-morrow, Smithy, but we’ll keep our distance.’

“It was from Signal Hill, next afternoon, that we watched the big white liner steer clear of the bay—watched her in silence, with Nobby’s hungry eyes never leaving her as she put her nose to the north an’ went out, dippin’ her flag.

“‘Good-bye,’ I heard him whisper. ‘Good-bye—God bless you, little girl—God bless you!’

‘‘In silence we turned down the hill, an’ Nobby’s face was white. We were leavin’ Capetown for India in a few weeks, an’ knowin’, as I did, how much Nobby was feelin’ this affair of his, I hoped the excitement of preparin’ for the‘Shiny’ would help him to forget his trouble.

“‘She’s goin’ to England,’ sez Nobby, breakin’ the silence as we reached Adderley-street. ‘She’s got some relations of her mother’s there. She’s goin’ to live there an’ asked me to call’—he smiled a little bitterly, an’ I could see how hard he was hit.

“It was an unfortunate thing that we’d no sooner got back to barracks than Spud Murphy, who was gettin’ very bold, come swaggerin’ into the room, just as Nobby was hangin’ up his belt.

“‘Nobby,’ sez Spud, ‘I understand that there’s a bit of a dispute regardin’ a certain shirt wot you said I pinched. Now——’

“Nobby turned in a flash.

“‘Are you lookin’ for trouble, Spud?’ he sez, quick.

“‘If you’ve got any to give away,’ sez Spud, easily, ‘I shall be pleased to take it,’

“‘Well, take it,’ sez Nobby, an’ landed him a smack in the jaw that didn’t do him any good at all. But he was up again in a second, an’ looks at Nobby very carefully.

“‘I can take a hidin’ with any man,’ sez Spud, thoughtfully, ‘if there’s any occasion, or if there’s’a reasonable chance of gettin’ a fair exchange of punish­ment. Nobby,’ he sez, reproachful, ‘you oughtn’t to pretend that you’ve lost your dash—it ain’t fair on the likes of me.’

“‘Give him a dig in the eye,’ sez a chap named Hooker, who was a great feller for pushin’ other chaps into danger.

“‘You try the experiment,’ sez Spud, ‘I’m busy.’

“There were lots of chaps who didn’t believe that Nobby’s dash had come back again, an’ they fell into a great error. For Nobby went through a period of quiet savageness, an’ two fellers of‘H’ Company who came over one evenin’ to pull his leg, was assisted back to their rooms by lovin’ friends—they not having sufficient eyesight.

“As the time grew nearer for our departure for India he sobered down again, an’ went back to his books, an’ him an’ me took long walks across the Cape Flats—but we never spoke about the thing that was uppermost in both our minds. Except once.

“‘Goin’ back to India,’ sez Nobby, one day as we were returnin’ to barracks after a long walk, ‘is, in a way, the best thing. It means that we shall never meet, an’ she won’t be bothered with the thought that I’m anywhere around.’

“As we walked across the barrack square we heard cheerin’ from all the bungalows. The fellers were yellin’ their heads off.

“‘Hullo!’ sez Nobby, surprised, ‘what’s on? Somebody standin’ the troops free beer?’

“We hadn’t long to wait for any explanation, for as we passed ‘G’ we heard the chaps singin’:


If I cross the briny
To go unto the “Shiney,”
To Quetta or to good old Chucajee;
Oh, who’ll look after Biddy,
An’ me mother, an’ the kiddy?
Oh, Aldershot is good enough for me,
For me,
Aldershot is good enough for me!


“Nobby stopped dead, an’ looked at me.

“‘Go in, and find out,’ he began, when along come Spud Murphy.

“‘What ho!’ he sez, singin’:


I’m goin’ back to the dear old land,
Far away over the sea,
Back to the scenes of me childhood—”


“‘Stop bein’ poetical,’ sez Nobby, ‘an’ talk sense; what’s the game?’

“‘India’s cancelled,’ sez Spud, doin’ a’ little cellar-flap dance. ‘We’re for Aldershot.’

“An’ so it was.

“At the last minute the War Office had decided to send a regiment home, an’ they’d chosen the Anchesters. It was a joyful week we spent, an’ everybody’s spirits was sky-high. Nobby was a new man, an’ on the boat he was the life an’ soul of the ship—you heard how he carried on at Cadiz—an’ in course of time we reached Southampton.

“I was the first to see the girl. She stood a little apart in her furs—there was a bite in the air—an’ she looked a sweet picture—with her pale, young face an’ her big, sad eyes.

“Then, in the confusion of disembarking, I missed her, an’ was helpin’ to get the regimental kit ashore, when the‘flag’ came up to Nobby, who was with me, an’ said a lady wanted to see him in the saloon. Nobby changed colour, but went without sayin’ a word. He was gone a long time, an’ when he came back he looked grave, but said nothin’ to me.

“We marched into the Albuhera Barracks at the ’Shot that afternoon, an’ was busy till night gettin’ kit from stores. The regiment in the next barracks—the North Lancashires I think it was—cooked our dinner for us, an’ invited us over to their canteen, but when me an’ Nobby had finished our work, we got into our walking-out kit, an’ went into town. It was Nobby’s suggestion, We went down to South Camp, an’ turned into the Church of England Soldiers’ Club, an’ got tea; then Nobby spoke up.

“‘Smithy,’ he said, goin’ straight to the heart of the matter, ‘her people want her to get married to a man with money.’

“‘Well?’ I sez.

“‘She ain’t rich, as I thought she was. In fact, except for a couple of hundred pounds she’s got nothin’—I—I told her she ought to marry him.’ He hung his head as he said this. ‘I told her all about myself, that I wasn’t anything worth considerin’; not because I’m a soldier, for I’m a better man, an’ a prouder man now, than ever I was.’

“What did she say?’ I asked.

“Nobby Clark shook his head.

“‘There are some things I can’t tell even you, Smithy,’ he sez. ‘I told her that I was a man who could never earn more than a couple of pounds a week—an’ I told her why I didn’t write to her.’

“‘An’ what did she say?’ I asked. ‘I want to know,’ I sez, ‘because everythin’ depends on that.’

“He rose.

“‘It’s no good thinkin’ about it,’ he sez, very abrupt, an’ that’s all I could get out of him.

“We took our furlough together an’ went to London.

“When Nobby said he thought we could afford to take lodgin’s at Blackheath, I knew that the girl was livin’ somewhere in the neighbourhood, an’ that he wanted to be near her.

“She was livin’ with an aunt, an’ I saw her once drivin’ in a carriage, an’ in a roundabout fashion, I got to hear that the chap who wanted to marry her was an elderly feller, with pots of money. He hadn’t got a nice reputation by all accounts, but he was madly in love with the girl, an’ it was because Nobby, who was breakin’ his heart over her, knew that the money would make her comfortable, that he was persuadin’ her to marry him.

“Our furlough was nearly up, when Nobby told me he’d written her, an’ was goin’ to meet her an’ asked me to come along with him. I think he asked me because he’s got a very nice mind, an’ didn’t want the girl’s reputation to suffer, through meetin’ him alone.

“That mornin’ I had the surprise of my life, for, as I was takin’ a constitutional across the heath, who did I meet but the Adjutant, Captain Umfreville. He looks at me in surprise.

“‘Why, Smith!’ he sez, ‘what are you doin’ in this part of the world?’ We talked for a little time, an’ he offered me a cigar, an’ told me his people lived close at hand. A nice gentleman is the Adjutant.

“That afternoon Nobby an’ me walked across the Heath, to the place the girl had chosen, an’ there she was waitin’ an’ Nobby went toward her, whilst I stood round admirin’ the scenery. They walked together, up an’ down, an’ even at the distance I stood I could see how upset Nobby was. I suppose they was talkin’ for half-an-hour when I saw a man cornin’ across the heath toward ’em.

“A stoutish chap he was, walkin’ very quick, an’ puffin’ an’ blowin’ like a grampus.

“He didn’t wait till he got up to ’em before he started talkin.’

“‘Hi! Marie! What the devil do you mean by this, miss?’ he shouted.

“She turned towards him with a face like thunder, an’ I walked forward, scentin’ trouble.

“‘I shall write to your brother,’ sez the stout chap, furious, ‘walkin’ about in broad daylight with a common soldier? I’ll——’

“‘I think you forget yourself, Mr. Hoggin,’ sez the girl, very dignified. ‘You have no right to dictate to me as to what I shall do, or what I shall not do.’

“‘No right!’ he roars. ‘What! aren’t you practically engaged to me?’

“‘No, sez the girl, ‘I am not—nor shall I ever be. There is only one man in the world that I shall ever love,’ an’ she laid her hand on Clark’s shoulder. I thought the stout man would have a fit. He spluttered an’ stammered an’ got purple in the face.

“‘A soldier!’ he almost screamed, a wretched shilling-a-day gutter child! You’re mad! I’ll report this man to his commanding officer—I’ll write——’

“‘You needn’t do that,’ sez a voice. I looked round, an’ there was the Adjutant.

“‘I am Clark’s company officer, if you have any particular complaint to make,’ he sez, coolly.

“‘Oh, you are, are you?’ spluttered the stout teller, ‘then let me ask you sir, if you allow blackguards of this kind——’

“‘Private Clark is not a blackguard,’ sez the Adjutant.

“‘He’s a damned soldier,’ swore the other.

“‘So am I,’ sez the Adjutant.

“‘He’s had the impertinence to run after my fiancée—the stout man was absolutely beside himself with rage—‘he’s not in a position—he’s an uneducated——’

“‘That may be,’ sez the Adjutant, quietly, ‘but he can improve himself; he can afford to wait, and so can the lady,’ he smiled.

“‘Do you mean to tell me,’ sez the stout chap, gaspin’, ‘that you, an officer, can encourage a man of this class—’

“‘I do,’ sez Captain Umfreville, ‘in two or three years Clark can make himself fit for a princess,’ he sez.

“‘Will you wait three years, Miss Vanhys?’ he sez to the girl.

“‘I will wait whilst I live,’ she said, an’ Nobby’s arm went round her.

“‘He’s a private soldier!’ roars the stout man, who couldn’t get over the fact, an’ you’re standin’ up for him! ’

“‘I know that,’ sez the Adjutant. ‘In the army,’ he sez, ‘we make it a rule to stand by our comrades, an’ I’m goin’ to stand by Clark, an’ help him to be worthy of a good woman’s love.’

“‘Do you call yourself a gentleman?’ sneers the stout chap.

“‘I call myself a man,’ sez the Adjutant.”</story>