<story title="SMITHY ON HUMOUR" date="1908">
SOMETIMES I have the good fortune to meet Smithy in a philosophical frame of mind, and for my edification he will discourse learnedly and shrewdly on all manner of subjects ranging from the intimate talk of regimental affairs to the larger survey of matters of political and national interest. The other day I found him sniggering over the pictorial representation of the “Imps” adventures. I learned that the front page of Ideas is a source of constant joy to the Anchester Regiment. Hence, Smithy on Humour:

“It’s a matter of disposition,” said Smithy. “What’ll make one feller laugh will reduce another chap to a mournful state of mind. There ain’t any very sure way of making a chap laugh, but, gen’rally speakin’, the easiest way is to tell a story about somebody gettin’ hurt. There’s nothin’ quite so comic as a feller fallin’ off a house, an’ I’ve seen a yarn about a chap bein’ run over by a steam roller send people into fits. It’s the thought that it ain’t you, but somebody else that’s so comic. We had a chap in our regiment, by the name of Moggy, who could never see a joke. When all the other fellers would be rollin’ about the door holdin’ their sides, he’d be sittin’ still with a puzzled look on his dial, sayin’, ‘An’ what did the other man say?’

“Everybody tried to get a laugh out of Moggy, but nobody succeeded.

“Nobby tried his hand, an’ told a yarn about a chap who asked another chap: ‘If a herrin’ an’ a half cost three ha’pence what would twelve cost?’ and the other chap said, ‘One and sixpence.’ ‘No,’ sez the first chap, ‘they would cost a shillin’, an’ then explained it to him.

“‘Oh,’ sez the other chap. ‘herrin’s! I thought you said haddocks.’

“Everybody laughed except Moggy. He sat perfectly glum.

“‘What difference did it make,’ he sez, ‘whether they was herrin’s or haddocks?’

“That was the sort of feller Moggy was. Sometimes he would see the joke a long time after, an’ in church, when the parson was in the middle of his sermon, Moggy started to laugh over a joke Nobby had told him a week before. He got seven days for improper conduct in church.

“‘I’m very sorry, sir,’ he sez, to the company officer, ‘but I just happened to see a joke of Private Clark’s. Why does a hen cross the road? To get to the other side. Whilst I was in church it struck me, sir, that perhaps there wasn’t any other side, an’ that made me laugh.’

“‘Seven days,’ sez the officer, ’an’ perhaps the humour of my present remark will penetrate your thick head before the seven days is up.’

“Poor old Moggy was so upset that he wouldn’t listen to any more of Nobby’s jokes, an’ one day, when Nobby caught his finger in the winder an’ was dancin’ about the room, Moggy sez, very solemn: ‘If you expect me to laugh, you’re jolly well mistook.’

“I might say that Moggy was an older lookin’ man than most young soldiers, and although he said he was only twenty-one when he enlisted, he wouldn’t let Nobby look at his teeth to make sure. I’ve always thought that Moggy had a bit of a history, but he was closer than an oyster, an’ although me an’ Nobby did our best to find out, an’ even turned Marshy on to him, we never got anywhere near the truth.

“What annoyed Moggy so much was that whenever a bad crime, a murder or a burglary, got into the Sunday papers, Nobby used to put him through a cross-examination, such as ‘Where were you on the night of the 14th?’ an’ ‘Will you swear you did not know the deceased?’

“We found out the solution of Moggy’s mystery in a very peculiar way.

“One night Nobby an’ me was in town, an’ met Moggy, lookin’ worried and hurrying along the High-street. We stopped to talk to him, but he hurried on, an’ we went on to the ‘Phoenix’ an’ made up a bit about Moggy bein’ chased by his wife an’ three children. It was a bit of a joke, because when we put it about barracks every feller he met used to ask him how the missus was, and little Sid Carter spent a penny which might very well have gone in beer, on a baby’s rattle.

“This joke made Moggy wilder than anything. He comes up to Nobby one day in the canteen, an’ sez for two pins he’d put it across him. Nobby borrowed the two pins from the chap behind the bar.

“‘If you think,’ sez Mogg, very fierce, ‘this tale about my wife an’ three kids is a joke you’re in the wrong box, because the tale happens to be true, only it ain’t three kids, it’s five!”

“After that Nobby said it was hopeless expectin’ to get Moggy to see the comic side of life. It appears Moggy got married when he was young, an’ not bein’ able to get work he enlisted, an’ every penny he got went to his missus, an’ that when Nobby an’ me had seen him hurryin’ he was goin’ for the doctor for the fifth. Anybody who knows Nobby is well aware that there ain’t a kinder heart breathin’, an’ in addition to bein’ terribly upset at hurtin’ Moggy’s feelin’s, he felt we ought to do somethin’ for the pore old chap. Well, we got a sing-song up for him one pay night an’ collected eighteen shillin’s, an’ Mogg thanked Nobby with tears in his eyes. This was just before we went to Gibraltar, an’ the week before we sailed we raised another pound, an’ little Fatty Golden, who’s got a sister in the second­hand clothes line of business, wrote home an’ got a bundle of things what his sister couldn’t sell nohow, for pore Mrs. Moggy.

“But the change that came over the regiment gen’rally was the wonderful thing. Instead of treatin” Mogg as they used to, they behaved like friends towards him in his sad affliction. It was ‘Have a drink, Moggy, old feller,’ an’ ‘Drink hearty, Mogg,’ an’ ‘Don’t you trouble about payin’,’ till Nobby began to think about gettin’ married hisself.

“Once or twice in every three months there used to be a whip round for Moggy an’ the missus, an’ one Christmas time, when everybody was full of good spirits an’ free beer, they collected as much as £2 17s. 3½d., a bad shillin’, an’ a Waterbury watch that wouldn’t go, but which, as Nobby said (he gave it) had possibilities.

“I won’t say that Moggy wasn’t grateful, because that would be a lie. He was more grateful than lots of chaps would have been. He was always willin’ to oblige, an’ started gettin’ a sense of humour. He laughed at Nobby’s jokes once or twice, till Nobby got a bit huffy, an’ told him not to laugh in the wrong place. After that Moggy would sit watchin’ Nobby’s face very intently, waitin’ for the signal, so to speak.

“I remember one night Nobby was spinnin’ a horrid lie about how him an’ me an’ Pug Wilson was nearly swallered by a rattlesnake in India. It was one of them serious tragic tales that Nobby liked to tell young recruits who didn’t know enough to contradict him.

“‘There was me,’ sez Nobby, ‘a-facin’ him; his jaws was wide open, an’ I could see him settin’ his poison ready. I wasn’t a bit afraid——

“‘Ha, ha, ha!’ sez Moggy.

“Nobby looks at him.

“‘What the devil are you laughin’ at?’ he snaps.

“‘Beg pardon, Nobby.’ sez pore old Mogg; ‘thought I saw you wink.’

“‘There was me,’ sez Nobby, goin’ on, ‘without a gun in me hand, an’ the poisonous snake walkin’ quietly towards me. I thought of me old home; of me mother——’

“‘Ho, ho, ho!’ roars Moggy, holdin’ his sides, ‘that’s one of the comicalist things I’ve heard for a long time!’

“Nobby got up very wrathful.

“‘If you can’t behave yourself, like a gentleman,’ he sez, ‘hop it.’

“‘I’m very sorry, Nobby,’ sez Moggy, ‘I was under the impression——’

“‘Never mind what you was under,’ sez Nobby, very wild, ‘you come here interruptin’ my story an’ I’ll knock your head off.’

“Moggy’s intentions was good—even Nobby could see that—an’ sometime after he went up to Moggy an’ said that bygones should be bygones, an’ invited him down to Mrs. Carey’s ‘do.’

“At that time, in Gibraltar, there was a lady named Mrs. Carey, who used to give a sort of party to soldiers. She hadn’t got a ‘home,’ but used to hire a hall. She was a wonderful lady was Mrs. Carey, because she didn’t think that soldiers was made to be prayed over, or snivelled over, an’ she never used to ask ’em about their souls, like they do in the other soldiers’ homes in Gibraltar, especially in one where they keep a nice clean-lookin’ sailor to make inquiries of that sort.

“But Mrs. Carey used to treat a chap’s soul as if it was his own private an’ secret property, not as if it was a sort of cold in the head that you had to ask about every time you met a chap. Yet she did more good than a dozen soldiers’ homes. She knew that a glass of beer never did any man harm, an’ a pipe of ’bacca was as good as a meal to some chaps, an’ when she tackled a feller it wasn’t a case of ‘Dear-brother-where-have-you-strayed?’ but straight to the point. ‘I hear you was seen on the Ramps last night in a wretched state of intoxication—I’ve a good mind to box your ears.’

“Fellers got to know’ Mrs. Carey, an’ they never tried to lie to her, or pretend they were sufferin’ from giddiness when she saw ’em supported by the picquet. We had to have boxin’ an’ fencin’, an’ there was books an’ papers to read, an’ gen’rally, in the course of the evenin’, somebody or other would sing a song.

“Moggy had never been to Mrs. Carey’s. He never went anywhere unless somebody asked him to go. Nobby sez that Moggy enjoyed himself very much, especially with a young lady named Louisa. Mrs. Carey had always one or two friends to help her entertain. They was tradesmen’s daughters and decent young fellers from the town. She wouldn’t have anybody who thought they was a cut above a soldier, an’ that’s why Mrs. Carey’s ‘do’s’ was always such a success.

“The reason he enjoyed hisself with Miss Louisa was, said Moggy, she reminded him so much of what his eldest daughter would be when she grew up.

“‘I’ve got quite a fatherly feelin’ for that girl,’ he sez to Nobby.

“‘I dessay,’ sez Nobby.

“‘I’ve always been very’ fond of children,’ sez Moggy.

“‘So have I,’ sez Nobby, ‘of that age!’

“Mogg didn’t want Nobby to take him down to Mrs. Carey’s after that; he sort of drifted there natural, an’ there was always one or two fellers there who’d stand him a cup of coffee for the sake of the little ones at home.

“He asked Nobby not to mention the fact that he was married to Mrs. Carey.

“‘She’s one of them generous kind of women who will want to give me money,’ he sez: ‘an’ I want to keep me self respect an’ not be a burden to anybody!’

“We respected old Moggy for that; we respected him so much that Bill Mason got up another subscription for him.

“Moggy got very good reports from home. ‘The two pounds that we sent a little while back had bought a mangle,’ he sez, ‘an’ the missus was gettin’ quite a nice connection together. The children was keepin’ well (he read a bit of the letter out to us), but little Ernest had had a lot of trouble with his teethin’. Young Sam had a bad cold, but was goin’ on nicely. Imogene had fallen down an’ cut her knee, but it was better. Clarence was gettin’ on nicely at school with mathematics, an’ could now say his multiplication table up to “four times four are forty-four.” So no more at present, from your lovin’ wife, Matilda.’

“What with these letters comin’ in, an’ the news from time to time about Ernest’s teeth, we felt we was gettin’ our money’s worth, an’ even Nobby suspended money-makin’ operations, so as not to interfere with the support of Moggy’s family. In a manner of speakin’ we’d adopted him.

“‘It’s like what you read in story books,’ sez Moggy, with tears in his eyes, ‘about children bein’ brought up by the regiments an’ bein’ the “Pets of the Battalion,” ‘he sez.

“‘I wouldn’t go so far as sayin’ that,’ sez Nobby, very cautious, ‘but in a manner of speakin’ they are very dear to us.’

“‘Thank you, Nobby,’ sez Mogg, gratefully, shakin’ Nobby’s hand, ‘you’ve got a tender heart.’

“Moggy never could see a joke straight off.

“That same afternoon we saw Mrs. Carey driving in the Alameda an’ saluted her. We was passin’ on but she stopped the carriage an’ beckoned to us.

“‘Smith,’ she sez, ‘I hope you an’ your friends are goin’ to buy your comrade a nice weddin’ present.’

“‘Which comrade, ma’am!’ sez Nobby, surprised.

“‘Don’t you know?’ she sez. ‘Why he’s goin’ to marry Louisa an’ purchase his discharge, an’ Louisa’s brother is going to give him a position.’

“‘What name did you say, ma’am?’ sez Nobby, politely.

“‘Mogg,’ sez Mrs. Carey, an’ Nobby sort of staggered.

“‘Beg pardon?’ he sez, faintly.

“‘Mogg,’ sez the lady, “a most careful, savin’ young man. Now don’t forget to give him something nice,’ an’ noddin’ to us, she drove on.

“‘Mogg?’ sez Nobby, in a trance. ‘give him a weddin’ present?’ he sez, dreamily. ‘Yes, certainly—we’ll give him a wreath.’

“Then he woke up.

“‘Smithy,’ he sez, fiercely, ‘have we been supportin’ Mogg’s fam’ly for years or have we not?’

“‘We have,’ I sez.

“‘Have we took what I might call a lovin’ interest in Ernest’s teethin’ an’ Imogene’s knee or have we not?’

“‘We have,’ I sez.

“‘Very well,’ sez Nobby, firmly, ‘then I ain’t dreamin’—come on back to barracks.’

“We found Mogg polishing his boots.

“‘Hullo, you bigaminous blighter,’ sez Nobby, ‘what’s the game?’

“‘Are you referrin’ to my nuptials?’ sez Mogg.

“‘I am, you thief,’ sez Nobby, ‘what about that wife an’ family of yourn?’

“‘I ain’t got no wife an’ family,’ sez Mogg, calmly.

“‘What!’ roars Nobby.

“‘I never had one,’ sez Mogg, breathin’ on his boots to disinfect ’em, ‘an’ never thought of havin’ ’em till you lumbered ’em on to me.’

“‘Me?’ sez Nobby.

“‘Yes,’ sez Mogg, ‘you found ’em, you told the chaps about ’em; you invented ’em.’

“‘But,’ sez Nobby wrathfully, ‘what about the money we’ve got together for you?’

“‘That,’ sez Mogg, carefully, ‘will be used to the best advantage.’

“‘You’ve robbed us,’ sez Nobby.

“‘Don’t say that,’ sez Mogg, pleadin’ly, ‘or I shall think you’ve no sense of humour—I have,’ he sez.

“‘In fact.’ he went on. ‘I’m beginning to see the comical side of things more than ever I did. It’s a great thing to have a sense of humour.’

“An’ he shook his head, thoughtfully an’ went on polishin’ his boots.”</story>