<story title="THE KINDERGARTEN" date="1918">
THE entry of the United States into the European war may be likened to the entry of a large and enthusiastic boys’ school into a strange bathing-pond. There was a great leap, a monstrous splash, much laughter, many whoops of joy, a few yells of consternation and a considerable amount of spluttering. The experienced swimmers who were already in and were not finding the water any too fine, had been through exactly the same process before they learned the art of natation, and neither criticized nor sneered nor grew greatly hilarious, realizing that in time the hubbub would die down and there would be some desperately good swimming going on and that some of them would have to battle hard to keep abreast of the new material.

They were not all amateurs, these new arrivals. There were some who could do fine breast strokes and wonderful overhand movements and there were others who floated quite nicely. These were the “old contemptibles” of the American Army, those wise and wicked men who had sneaked away to Europe disguised as Frenchmen, Canadians, Englishmen—any old thing that gave them the right to enter the war zone.

Among the voertrekkers in the field of honor was a very considerable body of American gentlemen who were formed into a flying squadron attached to the French army and did truly wonderful work, being by nature adventurers. They earned world fame and deservedly so, for they did famous deeds which were chronicled in American newspapers and so fired the imagination of youthful America that when the big splash occurred, a large number of the swimmers made their way in the direction of those instructors in that peculiar form of warfare which is waged between the clouds and the stars.

A volume of recruits flowed into the American aerodromes to learn their business, but there was nevertheless a steady trickle of youthful talent toward France. Americans who were wintering in Egypt, Americans who were observing Paris or amusing themselves in London, very naturally directed their steps toward the American headquarters in France. They thought, and there was reason for it, that they were losing time by going to America and taking unjustifiable risks from submarines. Moreover, they were most anxious to finish the war before the other America came in, and so they filled the anterooms of the American military attachés in various cities of the world and armed with imposing passports and divers documents, they made their way to a town, which we will call Bonville, where there had been established in the twinkling of an eye the nucleus of an American Air Service.

The older men taught them the game—the stunts they found out for themselves. They did things which no reasonable and well-conducted airman should do, but everybody seemed to agree that under the circumstances those extraordinary departures from convention were wholly justified.

Tam of the Scouts was sent on a swift single-seater to make certain observations of the country which extends from the back of the British line to the sea. He was discovering landmarks whereby hostile airmen could find their way to a certain naval port. Wherever these landmarks were too conspicuous they would be camouflaged; even the course of a river, which helped a bombing squadron at night, might so be changed in appearance that it would not serve for guidance.

He reached the sea, circled over the port and headed back for his aerodrome. He was ten minutes’ distance from the town, that is to say, some fifteen miles, when he was attacked in the air by a large formation which when he approached it had been orderly and regular in its appearance, but which broke and broke unpleasantly when he came within rifle-shot. Two of the machines took no part in the attack. Their pilots were firing strangely colored lights with every evidence of agitation, but the remainder came upon him like a swarm of hornets and Tam was compelled to nose-dive into the middle of them, letting off his Lewis gun and very narrowly escaping a collision with a large and old-fashioned biplane which seemed to suffer from some chronic aeronautic affliction which caused it to loop the loop involuntarily.

Tam planed down to within a thousand feet of the earth, fluttered and ruffled. It was not his business to fight people and certainly not his business to take on fifteen hostile airplanes single-handed, and as he had the foot of his enemies, he had no difficulty in shaking off all except one pursuer, who chased him back to the aerodrome and when he landed, plumped down within a dozen yards.

Tam walked across to the pilot as he was hastily unbuckling the straps about his middle and addressed him sadly: “Sirr,” he said, “can ye no’ tell a Hun when ye see him?”

The flushed young man who had jumped from the chaser shrieked with laughter.

“Gee,” he said, “this is one on us! We thought you were a Heinie.”

IT transpired that Tam had butted into the kindergarten, the boldest kindergarten that had ever learned the C-A-T, cat, of aviation.

Later came Captain Bredwell of the United States Army, a teacher of the new idea and a veteran of war. He was very apologetic.

“Training a set o’ pups is child’s play compared with teaching these kids not to hit anything they see running loose. I tried to call ’em to heel and just as well might Noah have whistled for the dove after he had got well on his way to Ararat. I am very sorry.”

“Not at all,” said Blackie. “Tam enjoyed it; didn’t you, Tam?”

“Weel,” said Tam, “A’m no’ so sure. A’ll be coming over your way to morrow, sir,” he said to the American officer. “What time do ye take your young gentlemen up?”

“From eleven till one, if the weather’s good,” said the other.

Tam nodded.

“A’ll be coming about two,” he said, “and ye’ll recognize me by the fact that A’m wearin’ a red rose in ma buttonhole and carrying the Scotsman in ma right hand.”

“The kindergarten is pretty difficult to handle,” confessed Captain Bredwell over the luncheon-table; “you see, we haven’t had time to ground them in the fear of God and military history. They are young, they are keen, they are full of spunk but they haven’t got the hang of this military business.”

He shook his head reprovingly at the boy who had chased Tam back to the aerodrome, but the youth was at that moment in a heated discussion with Lieutenant Curten on the relative merits of British and American motor-cars, both, strangely enough, being the sons of men who had grown rich in exploiting the public passion for speed.

“’Tis no’ discipline that young Rain-in-the-Neck wants,” said Tam—he had a trick of applying the nomenclature to be found in the works of his favorite authors to those who pleased him. “’Tis a little machine-gun practise. He was on ma trail a’ the time and didna get me—Mon, that’s inexcusable.”

“What really happened, Tam?” asked Baxter, and the babble of noise which accompanied every meal in the Umpty-fourth hushed to silence.

Tam looked over his audience as an experienced lecturer might.

“’Twas a fearfu’ experience,” he said. “Wingin’ ma way homeward wi’ no thocht o’ danger, wi’ a blaw sky o’erhead an’ the gay green airth beneath, A was thinkin’ o’ you young gentlemen an’ the veecious practise ye’ve got into of smokin’ cigarettes that produce anemia, palpitation, hairt disease an’ cold feet, when ma attention was attracted by the appearance on ma starboard bow of a graund aggregation of talent that would have made Buff’lo Bill tairn in his grave.

“At the moment A did not realize ’twas the United States Airmv practisin’ for bluidy war. Ma first thocht was that ’twas a party of French bairdmen that had been celebratin’ the feast of the Moulin Rouge.”

“Say!” chuckled Captain Bredwell loyally, “that’s rather tall—I guess the formation wasn’t perfect, but—”

Some one whispered to him and he sat back with a grin.

“Whilst ma mind was occupied wi’ givin’ the merry pairty a wide miss,” continued Tam, “the—what you might tairm for want of a better word—formation broke up an’ the ghastly truth dawned on me.”

He paused.

“’Twas a Wild West show,” he said solemnly, “yes sirrs! There was buckin’ broncos, an’ shairpshooters, an’ lasooers, an’ wild Injans an’ the pairformance started promptly—there was no waitin’. Whilst I was attacked on the right by Sittin’ Bull an’ on the left by Denver Dan, Mexican Joe dived from above, utterin’ the war-cry or totem or what-not of his fierce clan. Alkali Ike tried to ram me—or tried not to ram me, A don’t know which, but the result was nearly the same. The Colorado Kid caught ma controls a swat wi’ his sixty-six shooter—an’ A was chased to ma old log cabin by Rain-in-the-Neck howlin’ for the blood of the paleface.”

Tam’s acquaintance with the technique of the classics was an extensive one. He went on in his singsong tone.

“Of the rest of the story there is na much to be told.” he said. “Tam, the indomitable scoot, is noo an auld man wi’ gray hair, an’ may be seen, leadin’ his grandson to the scene of his great ficht, pointin’ oot the place in the sky where he was nearly straffit. Denver Dan ended his evil life in a low drinkin’ shanty, Rain-in-the-Neck is a Bug Hoose, whilst the Colorado Kid got releegion an’ made money.”

There was terrific applause when Tam finished—loudest of all from that same Rain-in-the-Neck (in private life Cadet Cyril Yanderberg).


THE story of Tam’s encounter with the kindergarten became public property. From Dunkirk down to Belfort hundreds of messes recounted the story with such embellishments as fancy dictated and in a remarkably short space of time it came to the ears of Captain Fritz von Stoffel, and naturally von Stoffel was greatly interested, for he was chief of the Baby-killers’ Circus.

It must be said that the babies he killed were mostly Germans. He was a disciplinarian of the fierce and fiery type. He never spoke, he barked. His lightest whisper was something between a rifle-shot and the explosion of a pop-gun. He had never raided London nor had he raided any of the villages that lie between the Kentish coast and the metropolis. Indeed he had never crossed blue water. He earned his title of Baby-killer because his specialty lay in the strafing of rest-camps, hospitals, unprotected artillery bases and observation balloons. He took few risks and in consequence endured very few casualties in air fighting; indeed, the heaviest death-roll resulted from his practise of sending nervous young pilots aloft in a high wind.

Now, most circuses are sporting. They are out looking for trouble and when they find it they get as close as they can and stay as long as it is safe, but everybody knows that von Stoffel’s circus never did anything which could be exaggerated into recklessness. It so happened when the news of Tam’s adventure came to the gallant captain that he had received a hint from the head-quarters of the corps to which he was attached—one of those broad Prussian hints that left a scar—that his cautiousness was developing into a vice, and it was suggested that it might be necessary to ask him to take a long leave for the benefit of his health and hand his command over to his junior.

Von Stoffel spent an evening in his stuffy and airless dugout grappling with “A Plan.” That plan, set forth with much detail, was delivered into the hands of the corps commander and by him transmitted to Highest Authority, retransmitted to the corps commander with certain hieroglyphics of approval scrawled upon its margin and by him forwarded to von Stoffel, who did everything but kiss the aforesaid hieroglyphics in his ecstatic happiness.


TAM of the Scouts was ordered one fine day to take a flight into Darkest France, and pursue investigations concerning the transportation of German troops westward. Two of his machines developed engine trouble and returned and Tam went on with the two that remained and had a most exciting morning. For though his machine was a scout and not of the bombing type, he carried four bombs for exactly the same reason that the average Western citizen carries a gun in his hip pocket, and passing over a seemingly deserted aerodrome he dropped a couple to discover whether anybody was at home.

He had hardly observed the bursts before his machine was ringed with well-aimed shrapnel. Whereupon his two companions, who were quite out of the danger zone, very naturally closed into it and one of these secured a direct hit upon a building which Tam surmised must have been the private brewery of that aerodrome, for he and his companions were immediately attacked with unparalleled ferocity by the owners of the aerodrome, who had been out hunting and approached their home behind the cover which a stratum of cloud afforded.

Whereupon the three British airmen decided that it was getting very late and streaked westward, all out, losing a little height to increase the margin which lay between them and their pursuers. They passed over the line, disgracefully deserted at this particular moment by fighting craft, with six machines still in pursuit.

Now, no airman, in whatever distress of mind he may be, will fly from an enemy over his own territory, even should the enemy be overwhelmingly stronger, and in conformity with the unwritten law of air fighting, no sooner had the zigzag of trenches been left in his rear than Tam signalled “Engage” and swung round to meet his enemies.

Two modern air-planes separated at a distance of four-hundred and fifty yards approach each other at such a speed that they pass in the time that you can count six. In three of these seconds the decisive battle is fought. Either you “get” your enemy, your enemy “gets” you, or you “get” one another.

In a flash as they passed Tam saw the enemy pilot drop, and as he himself had no inclination to drop, he knew he had won, unless the enemy observer had escaped and was using the dual controls.

Imagine these two machines passing each other on a parallel course and a second later a third machine dropping from the blue and missing the tail of the attacker by inches. Picture a second British machine falling after this bolt, his gun shooting vertically earthward, along the nacelle of the diving German; imagine two other enemy machines banking over and shooting sideways and indiscriminately at Tam and his assistant—a roaring, whirling mix-up of air-planes bucking and jumping, slipping, climbing and diving, and suppose that all this happens in the space of some twenty seconds, and you visualize an air battle at its most intense period.

Tam looked down as the second machine fell in flames and began his glide to earth, for he did not need to see the remainder of the enemy flight wheel eastward to know that the battle was over. One of his own machines was going down in circles. Tam saw this and wrinkled his nose—that was the only sign of sorrow he ever showed—and there was reason enough, for that easy spiral which was bringing a dead pilot and a dead observer to earth would end in a crash.

Tam’s report was almost uninteresting by the side of another report which was being flashed along the wire to Headquarters Intelligence. It was the report of a young and keen intelligence officer who had sat by the bedside of a dying German air-man, one of those whom Tam had grounded, and had listened to the unconscious man as he talked of his home in Darmstadt and his mother and the fishing on the Moselle, and how splendid it would be to go to Marienbad this summer and other things which had made the intelligence officer lean over the bed, listening intently and scribbling notes in the little book he whipped from his tunic pocket.


THE air-man died before he said very much. If he had died sooner he would have saved the German army quite a number of casualties.

Tam was roused from his bed at midnight by the entrance of his superior.

“Sorry to wake you from your beauty sleep.” said Blackie, putting no hint of sorrow in his voice, “but there’s the greatest stunt on.”

Tam sat up in bed blinking at the electric light.

“Take an interest, you sleepy devil,” said Blackie.

“Oh, aye,” said Tam. “A’m awfu’ interested. A’m speechless wi’ it.”

Blackie sat himself on the bed. “The Hun is going to strafe the kindergarten to-morrow,” he said; “you butted into the Baby- killers.”

“You don’t mean it.” said Tam, wide awake. “It was no’ von Stoffel?”

“It was von Stoffel,” nodded Blackie, “and you interrupted a practise attack. I have always said the kindergarten flies too near the line for safety. I don’t think they will after this. It is a pretty low-down thing to do, but I suppose it’s fair. Von Stoffel is taking big flights to-morrow and intends swooping down on the kindergarten and there shall be a great slaughtering of innocents, according to the plan. Intelligence found it out and you are for the stunt,” he shook his head mournfully. “You are a lucky beggar,” he said; “I don’t mind admitting that I asked to go in your place, but my life is much too valuable.”

“What is the stunt?” asked Tam.

Blackie chuckled. “The kindergarten will remain in school to- morrow,” he said, “their places in the air will be taken by the aces. All the squadrons in this part of the world are to send one. You are the representative of the Umpty-fourth.”

Tam swung his legs out of bed.

“There’s no need to get up,” said Blackie, “the stunt isn’t on for another nine hours.”

“Mon,” said Tam. unbuttoning his pajama jacket, “’twill take me that time to learn the American language.”

 

AT five o’clock in the morning two specially chosen patrols flew to the region of the kindergarten’s aerodrome and began sweeping the skies eastward, forming a barrage through which no inquisitive Hun might pass. They were not protecting the kindergarten, far from it. They had a certain duty to perform and when that was performed, as it was by eight o’clock, the patrols signalled one another good-by and departed for their homes, leaving the way clear for von Stoffel, who was due at eleven, that being the hour when the kindergarten took the air.

But between five and eight the aces began to arrive, sweeping down from great heights and ranging themselves in nice orderly lines on the broad expanse of the aerodrome. Tam was the first to arrive. De Rochleaux, with twenty-nine crashed to his credit, was the second. Mildred of the Hundred and Umpty-first Squadron, who had on one memorable occasion taken on a circus single-handed and had brought down six machines, was the third, and after his arrival the aces fell thick and fast.

Le Fevre, Runnymede, Lord Arthur Saxman, Townly, the American instructor with eighteen skull-and-cross-bones painted on the nose of his machine to represent the eighteen sad occurrences to the German Army, Minter “the guardian of Ypres”—they all met for breakfast, full of joy at the forthcoming meeting. They took the air at 10:15, flying raggedly, the most beautiful piece of camouflage that was ever seen in the air.

At exactly the same hour von Stoffel snapped the case of his great gold watch and remarked to his obsequious adjutant: “Before we come back the American correspondents will have something to write home about.”

He glanced down at the long line of airplanes, pilots in their places, mechanics standing by the propellers, and raised his hand in a signal. Instantly there was a roaring and snorting, thudding and thundering din of engines. His hand dropped and his graceful Fokker leaped forward and zoomed up at an acute angle. One after the other the squadron followed and ten minutes later the formation was in being.

Von Stoffel, sitting in the cock-pit before the pilot, fired his signal pistol and the big circus moved westward. The German commander adjusted his ear-piece and speaking-tube, fired off a few rounds from his gun to test it and then gave himself up to the enjoyable prospect before him.

The circus crossed the British lines and were greeted by Archie in the usual manner. Von Stoffel, his powerful field-glasses to his eyes, searched the distant heavens.

“Ah! There they are,” he said triumphantly, and signaled “Enemy in Sight.”

“We shall have to climb,” said a voice in his ears, the voice of his squadron’s crack pilot, “they are much higher than we.”

“What are we flying at?”

“Ten thousand feet, Herr Captain; they are at twelve thousand.”

This was hitch number one. The reconnaissance patrols which von Stoffel had sent out had reported that the kindergarten never flew higher than eight thousand feet. The baby-killer signaled a change of direction and asked for altitude and the big formation began climbing. Again the direction was changed.

“They are climbing too,” said the voice of his pilot. “I think they are going up to fifteen thousand.”

Von Stoffel swore and again his squadron climbed.

The spurious kindergarten watched these maneuvers with the greatest hilarity. Lord Arthur Saxman, by reason of his seniority, commanded the right wing.

“Bags I the great white chief,” he said joyously and went down in an alarming nose-dive, working both his guns—for he was a two-gun man and ambidextrous.

“That big bomb for mine!” said Captain Bredwell and dropped simultaneously.

“Big fellow, I want ye,” and Tam dropped, his gun rapping furiously.

This was all very hard luck on von Stoffel, because either of these aces could have settled him.

Of the twenty-two strafers that set forth to beat up the kindergarten, four came back, two limping, if a knocking engine be the equivalent to a limp, and a German communiqué of that night read:


“WE CONDUCTED A SUCCESSFUL RAID UPON AN AMERICAN AVIATION CENTER. SEVERAL MACHINES WERE SEEN TO FALL IN FLAMES. ALL OUR MACHINES RETURNED SAFELY.”


This telegram, thoughtfully transmitted from headquarters to the kindergarten mess, where they were entertaining the noisiest bunch of guests that had ever assembled, embellished the end of a perfect day.</story>