<story title="THE WAGER OF RITTMEISTER VAN HAARDEN" date="1919">
THERE is among the children of all countries, and this has been true through all the ages, a certain test of courage which varies according to locality and according to the standard which local tradition demands. Blessed indeed is the boy of that town which has a suicide’s tree to which shivering youth can make a midnight pilgrimage, bringing back proof of his valor; or great deeds can be accomplished and prowess proved beyond any question, if there are inaccessible cliffs which may be climbed, what time parents are blissfully unconscious of the narrow margin which separates the smoothness of their daily life from the upheaval consequent upon a fashionable funeral.

Not so many years ago the small boys of the village demonstrated at once their agility and daring by making lightning dashes across the path of motor-cars, he who missed the mud-guard by the narrowest space being acclaimed a hero, and holding his position until some rival who strove to emulate his deed, miscalculated the distance and made that form of test unpopular amongst the mothers of the village.

Cadet William Best was standing beside his Hepworth Kitten gazing a little dubiously at the sky when Tam crossed the aerodrome in his direction.

“Ye’re goin’ up. Billy,” said Tam solemnly. “A thocht A’d come and say good-by to ye.”

Billy Best, who was chewing gum with extraordinary regularity, made no reply. His eyes were wistfully fixed upon a streak of cloud which was passing all too quickly across the heavens

“Ye’re a good boy as far as ye go,” Tam went on in his most sepulchural tones. “There’s a grand poem that A’ve got in ma heid for ye.


“Puir Billy Best
Is noo at rest,
He’s burnt somewhere handy.
We’ll miss his face
Aroond the place,
But oh! we’ll miss his candy!”


“Say,” said Billy between bites, “were you ever cheerful?”

“’Tis a lang way ye’re goin’.” said Tam, ignoring the question, “on a bit machine that has no parteecular merit except that ye canna be seen if ye get behint a machine-gun bullet. The air-r is filled’wi’ skeelful and cunning Huns—A doot if A’ll ever see ye again. Did ye leave the seegairs where I could find ’em?”

Billy jerked his head to the waiting mechanic and stepped gingerly into the fuselage.

“Before ye go,” said Tam, “do ye know yer way?”

“Aw! Rats!” snarled Billy Best. “Contact!”

The mechanics swung the propeller round once, twice, and then it caught hold with a surprisingly loud roar for so small an engine.

Tam stood with a smile in his eye as the little Kitten zoomed steeply up from the aerodrome. He watched it circling for height, and then, a tiny speck in the sky, he saw it turn and make toward Mossy Face Wood. He was in his own machine in two seconds and was climbing as steeply after his friend before the speck which represented the Kitten was out of sight.

Tam’s scout was the fastest of the squadron. He might reasonably hope to overtake Billy before Mossy Face Wood was reached, but he made no such attempt, keeping well to the left and crossing the line just below Quéant.

It was not until a quarter of an hour later that he saw Billy. Even then he would not have spotted him but for the fact that the air above Mossy Face Wood was filled with white and black shell-bursts.

Tam circled round and came to the east of the wood, and, looking down, saw the swift Albatross squadron climbing up to engage the intrepid disturber of their peace, for Billy had evidently carried out his promise, had dived to the sacred aerodrome and had loosed his machine gun at the indignant members of the chasing squadron lined up ready to rise.

Tam dipped for the nearest machine and sent it down out of control. Billy was now on the home stretch and there was nothing to be gained by waiting for certain trouble, for some of the Mossy Face squadron were certain to be in the upper regions of the air and moving in a fury to cut off the raiders.

Billy reached home a few seconds ahead of his companion and came down with one smashed strut, divers injuries to his wings, a leaking radiator and a groggy elevator. Otherwise he was sublimely happy, for he had climbed the cliff and visited the haunted tree and crossed ahead of the motor-car. In other words, he had bearded the Mossy Face squadron in its lair, a feat which all good young airmen accomplish if they have the opportunity.

His face was radiant and shining with pardonable pride when Tam came over to him.

“Bad luck, Billy,” said Tam; “you didn’t get there, I see!”

Billy stared at him.

“Didn’t get there?” he demanded wrathfully. “What do you mean? Of course I got there. I dived to within five hundred yards of the ground...a dozen machines came up after me...I loosed my gun—”

“Did ye noo?” said Tam incredulously. “Noo watching the ficht close at hand I thocht ye were intercepted by the watchful Hun. ‘Puir Billy,’ ses A, ‘brave lad,’ ses A to mesel.”

“Did you see me?” demanded Billy heatedly.

“Oh, I saw ye,” admitted Tam.

“Did I go down over Mossy Face Wood?”

“Ye did,” said Tam.

“Very well then,” said the triumphant Billy.

“Ye did,” repeated Tam, “and ye owe me the box of seegairs A bet ye.”

An outrageous claim which left Billy speechless.

Now the relationship between the Imperial Flying Corps of the German army and the flying corps of their enemies is a remarkable one. There are no written laws, no verbal arrangements, no discussions and agreements which bind other parties to any of the curious laws which have grown up in the course of the war and which govern both sides equally. For example, it had never been arranged that the flight over the aerodromes east of Mossy Face Wood should be regarded as a test of the quality and courage of British or American airmen, and no reciprocal arrangement had been reached by which the aerodrome of the Umpty-fourth should serve the same purpose for the recruits of Boelke’s or Immelman’s squadrons. It was “understood;” but how that understanding was reached is a mystery, that the post-graduate course of flying should include the difficult exercise represented by a trial flight from one aerodrome to the other.

It was understood too, that by way of signaling his arrival at the enemy goal, the student should endeavor to the best of his ability to shoot or bomb any odd gentleman of the squadron who happened to be in billets or in the open below, and it was equally understood that if the aerodrome thus attacked succeeded in shooting or driving down the rash visitor so that he crashed to his death, the side which obtained this success scored one.

The rivalry between Mossy Face Wood and the Umpty-fourth was a particularly keen one at the moment when Billy Best went out and returned in safety. For the scores stood:

Umpty-fourth, 26
Mossy Face, 12

and two of the latter were accounted for by defective engines and were not seriously included by the enemy in his calculation.

Indeed, the German airman is, speaking largely, a good sportsman. All that is best in the German army has gravitated to the flying corps, which in the third year of the war was the corps d’élite.

So much so that it ranked in social prestige above the Grenadiers of the Guard who hold a terribly high position in the military hierarchy.

Major Blackie duly recorded in his unofficial diary the fact that Billy had come and gone, and anticipating the sequel to this successful visit at a moment when the Mossy Face crowd were naturally feeling sore, he sent up a flight to patrol the area between Mossy Face and the Umpty-Fourth, and the precaution was justified, for at five o’clock that evening two German candidates for honor came speeding through the air at twelve thousand feet en route for the Umpty-fourth, followed at a distance by interested veterans who came to see the fun.

The first of the candidates was shot down two thousand yards west of the Umpty-fourth headquarters. The second reached the aerodrome and dropped a gas bomb, fell into a nose dive to avoid the attention of an aerial sentinel above and was shot down at six thousand feet by Tam who was climbing up to meet him.

So that at the end of that day the score was:

Umpty-fourth, 28
Mossy Face, 12

It was just about this date that Rittmeister von Haarden made his appearance upon the scene. In the chilly hours before the dawn, when the sky was smothered with stars and the world was still save for the never-ending thud and thunder of the guns, Tam led his flight over the lines for a three-hour reconnaissance. Four machines took part in the enterprise, and the pilots beside himself were Billy Best, Feltham and Barnstable.

They crossed the line in the dark and were some hundred miles from their base when the first rays of the sun glittered upon the white wings of the four planes. They were over a world which was singularly free from the evidence of war, a world of green checkered fields, of meandering threads of rivers, of clustering hamlets, though far away to the northwest a dull smudge of gray smoke and mist advertised the existence of a large industrial town.

There were no enemy machines in sight but the main roads were filled with transports, and Tam detected and photographed a big naval gun, admirably camouflaged, before a battery of Archies opened on his party and sent the machines rocking southward.

The light was not good for photography and much of the work was simple note-taking. They were searching for a cavalry concentration which was supposed to have come into existence in this particular area, and presently they found it, mile upon mile of white tents and picket-lines.

Since his duty was not to attack but to observe, Tam’s survey was a cautious one. By this time the light had improved and the cameras were clicking busily.

At seven o’clock Tam fired the “Return” signal, and the four scouts turned homeward, devoting the next ten minutes to a very careful test of their guns—for between them and their aerodrome lay some thirty squadrons of expert aerial fighters.

The morning, however, was clouding up and reconnoitering airplanes climbed until they were within reach of cover if cover were necessary. The necessity soon became apparent. Little white dots showing against the gray-blue of the horizon began to make their appearance.

It was within the cover afforded by clouds that Tam made his first acquaintance with Rittmeister von Haarden. He was going full lick through an impenetrable wall of white fog when something leaped out of the cloud before him and passed in a flash. He had a momentary glimpse of a great Albatross, the wings of which missed his by a few yards and that was all.

The tremendous disturbance of air caused by the machine’s passing made him side-slip out of the cloud into the visible range of the anti-aircraft guns. He looked round and saw a machine, which he recognized as Billy Best’s, rocking and diving amidst a veritable tornado of shell. Even as he looked the firing ceased and Tam banked over, for he knew that somebody was being attacked in the air and it was within the range of possibility that that somebody was himself. He glanced side-wise and saw the big Albatross dropping straight for Billy, glimpsed the stabbing pencils of flame from its machine gun and came round on a hairpin turn to engage the enemy. He and Billy were alone. The other two machines were in the cloud, quite unconscious of the fact that he was being attacked.

But the Albatross had apparently no friends in the offing. Billy stalled and looped behind his assailant as Tam got one burst of fire at the enemy. But the man in the Albatross was no amateur. His red-and-green striped wings dipped in a nose dive, a red ball of fire leaped from the fuselage, and Archie opened almost instantly upon the two British machines.

“This,” said Tam, “is where we gang hame,” and “gang hame” he did, avoiding all further combats, dodging the furious barrage which was put up against him behind the lines and reaching the aerodrome in time for breakfast.

“Captain Blackie. sir,” he reported (he consistently ignored the major’s promotion), “there’s a new feller wi’ a gay Albatross painted like a sun-blind.”

“Von Haarden,” said Blackie; “I heard he is on this sector. You had better watch that fellow. He is the best man the Germans had on the Russian front.”

“Puir lad,” said Tam shaking his head; “it’s an awfu’ come down from Russia to Somewhere-Near-Amiens. A doot he’ll miss the wee Bolchyvicks. ’Twill be a sad change after the glorious uncairtainties of war on the eastern front, not knowing whether ye’ll be treated better if ye fall on one side of the line than if ye fall on the other.”

“Make no mistake, Tam,” warned Blackie, “this fellow is an ace. We shall see him over here—Boelke makes all his new men do that stunt.”

“A’ll be verra glad to meet him, and so will ma wee frien’ Billy Best,” said Tam loyally.

“How is that boy shaping?” asked Blackie.

“He’s a fine lad,” said Tam soberly. “You may think I’m prejudiced because he’s a fellow Scotsman.”

“Eh?” asked the startled Blackie.

“A fellow Scotsman,” said Tam calmly. “D’ye think he’s American because he was born of American parents in America? There ye’re wrong, Captain Blackie. Speeritually he’s Scots.”

Blackie smiled. “You’re not going to entangle me into the realms of metaphysics, Tam,” he said; “I warn you and your Scots friend to look out for this fellow.”

“Warn him,” said Tam; “he’ll need it. A’m going to tell Billy about him.”

Tam shared a “bunk” with Cadet William Best, and here he found that young man stretched at full length on his bed, a suspicious-looking bulge in his mouth, his eyes glued to a paper-covered volume.

“Get up, ye lazy deevil,” said Tam sternly. “Mon. if ye’d heard the things that Captain Blackie was saying about ye’.”

“About me?” mumbled Billy.

“Don’t speak wi’ yer mouth full,” said Tam. “Have ye no got over that disgustin’ habit of yours? Billy, it’s childish for a grown man to be chewin’ goodies like a wee bairn. Faugh! Let’s open the window. The place reeks wi’ the faint sickly fumes of mint. Have ye eaten it all?”

Billy meekly produced a solid slab of unhealthy-looking sweetmeat and Tam nipped off a generous quantity before he spoke with the same difficulty which Billy was experiencing.

“’Tis no’ so good as the last lot,” he complained; “yeer parents are neglectin’ ye.”

“What did Blackie say about me?” demanded the youth on the bed.

“A’d like to spare ye,” said Tam, seating himself at his desk and extracting a report form. “A did ma best for ye, Billy, but though A’m puir A’m honest.”

“Pure?” asked the puzzled Billy.

“Impecunious,” said Tam. “‘What likes yon American boy?’ ses Captain Blackie. ‘He’s verra young but he’ll lairn,’ ses I. ‘Are ye lookin’ after him?’ ses Blackie. ‘A am. sair,’ ses I. ‘Every morning A make him wash his neck and clean his teeth, and look after him as if he was ma own child.’ ‘He’s a rotten flyer, A’m thinkin,’ ses Captain Blackie.”

“He didn’t say that?” said Billy in alarm.

“Not exactly in those words,” said Tam, “but from the look in his eye, A kent that was what he meant. ‘He’s no’ so bad,’ ses I; ‘Give him another chance,’ ses I; ‘his nairves aren’t all they might be,’ ses I. ‘But that’s due,’ ses I, ‘to his practise of smoking seegairs.’ ‘Do something for him, Tam,’ ses he; ‘persuade him to give them up, Tam,’ ses he. ‘take ’em away from him, if necessary by force,’ ses he, ‘and keep ’em till he comes of age.’ ‘A will,’ ses I.”

“You won’t,” says Billy Best resuming his study of exciting literature. “I’ve already given up smoking twice at your request. I thought it was bully of you to take such an interest till I found you smoking ’em.”

“ ’Twas all for your good,” said Tam gently. “Billy, have ye got a seegair?”

Billy groaned and groped under the bed, produced a locked box and, with great ostentation, fumbled for and found a key which was suspended round his neck by a bootlace. With this he opened the box, took out one cigar, relocked the box and replaced it under his bed, Tam eying the proceedings without moving a muscle of his face.

“Ye can’t be too careful. Billy; there’s thieves about,” he said as he smelled the cigar and pinched it. “Mon, what a surprise they’d get if the puir bodies burgled ye and got no better than a five-cent seegair. This is a shorter one than usual, Billy,” he said after a pause, and when his challenge had provoked no comment, “they’re robbin’ ye.”

“They are all the same size,” said Billy thickly.

“Open the box again and let me compare ’em,” said Tam.

“Not on yer life,” said a voice which might literally be described as sweet, but which in fact sounded as though its owner were undergoing a process of slow strangulation. And for a few moments there was no sound but the scrape of Tam’s pen and the indescribable noise of strong young jaws munching candy.

Then Billy asked: “What did you really say, Tam? I mean about me to Blackie.”

“Ah, weel,” said Tam grudgingly, “Ah said ye were no’ so bad.”

“And what did he say?” asked Billy eagerly.

“Weel,” said Tam, “he just sneefed.”

“But honestly?”

“Mon, ye’re a vain pup and A’m no’ going to make ye conceited.”

Billy sat up suddenly on the bed. “What’s that?” he asked.

“That’s a Hun.”

Tam lifted his head and listened.

“’Tis one of young Boelke’s Frenchmen,” he said.

He opened the door and stepped out, and looked upward between his shading palms.

“Come oot o’ that, Billy.” he shouted, and broke into a run to his hangar, but long before he reached it von Haarden was over the aerodrome.

The bomb had exploded near the headquarter office and he was wheeling backward, fighting off the guarding patrol which had closed on him.

“I’m afraid you were too late. Tam.” said Blackie, standing amidst a litter of smashed glass and shattered match-boarding which had once been his clerk’s office. A mechanic was running across the ground carrying a little canvas bag.

“Hello,” said Blackie, “dropped a message, did he? By the way, that was von Haarden.”

“A noticed it,” said Tam grimly.

Blackie took the bag and opened it, read the sheet of paper it contained and grinned. By this time he had an audience, for the mess-room and quarters had emptied rapidly at the first alarm and he was surrounded by a group of officers in various stages of dishabillé.

“Listen to this!” He read:


To-day I come once. To-morrow or perhaps next day or some other time propitious I come twice and show you that it is simple for German airmen to come. I will make a bet of gloves to do this unofficially. Soldierly and fraternal greetings. von Haarden.

“Silly ass,” said a disgusted voice.

“It sounds funny because his English isn’t good.” said Blackie, “but in reality it isn’t so funny as it looks. We will watch for this fellow on the ‘first day propitious.’ I do not desire that he should make a merry hell of my office again.”


FIGHTING squadrons of the Flying Corps have something more to do than to devote their attention to private vendettas. The work of the squadron is so systematized every hour of the day, every pilot and every machine is so occupied with the routine of war that the squadron can no more than reserve a corner of its collective brain for matters which are outside the official orbit.

Yet since the guarding of an aerodrome against hostile attacks is very much part of the day’s work and, bet or no bet, Rittmeister von Haarden was a most formidable scout leader, Blackie detailed in the orders of the day two flights to patrol “if weather reports favorable.”

Neither the next nor the following day did the enemy put in an appearance, but there was excellent reason. The weather had grown gusty, the sky was filled with low-lying clouds, and even the artillery planes were unable to go about their business.

On the afternoon of the third day the wind died down and the clouds rose with the barometer. Billy Best went up with Tam and patroled according to instructions. It was part of the unwritten law that the visit must be paid in the daytime, and it was an hour before sunset when von Haarden came along.

His arrival was signaled from the observation station two miles to the east of the aerodrome and Blackie hurried out to his telescope.

“That’s not the game,” he growled, and neither was it, for von Haarden was flying at something over twenty thousand feet.

Blackie looked round for the barrage flights. He counted the four machines of McAllister’s flight, but Tam’s four machines were invisible. Then presently he found them, and emitted a yell of exuberant joy, for Tam was also well above twenty thousand feet and his four planes were pinpoints of black in the sky and almost seemed stationary.

Tam was one of the few men who preferred the upper air. It was a saying of his that “Ye can fa’ quicker than ye can climb.” He was, in point of fact, a thousand feet higher than von Haarden in the region which would still be ablaze with sunshine when the sun had sunk for half an hour below the western skyline, a region so bitterly cold that even beneath his fur gloves his fingers were frozen stiff.

He saw the oncoming plane and signaled “Attack.” Billy Best, who was the right of the diamond formation in which the flight was moving, dropped sheer to his quarry and got in a burst as von Haarden swung his machine to avoid the attack.

Billy saw his enemy for perhaps the tenth part of a second before he fell behind and passed the tail of the Albatross. It was just a glimpse of a man in a fur coat, his face masked, his bent head covered with a fur and leather cap, his hands gripping the joy stick.

Tam, who followed, did not see as much. Curious things happen to machine guns in the upper air. and when Tam sighted the Rittmeister his gun behaved accordingly. There is no time in air fighting to correct the mischief of a jammed gun. Before Tam could loop over and gain the height necessary for attack, the Albatross had fulfilled its mission, was crossing the aerodrome amidst a pandemonium of Archie fire and was heading due west.

Tam followed in pursuit, but he had lost too much height to reach his enemy’s level and after a twenty-mile run, during which he succeeded in getting his gun working, he returned to the aerodrome.

“Hard lines, Tam,” said Blackie; “go over and cheer your young Scottish friend. He’s disconsolate.”

Billy indeed was grieved, almost to the point of tears.

“I used to think I could shoot,” he said miserably: “missed him at less than fifty yards. I was your young Nimrod all right: missed him, Tam, at fifty yards, by gosh!”

“Ah weel,” said Tam philosophically, “‘tis nothing to greet aboot. Maybe ye scairt him. What did ye come down for?”

“Search me!” said the wretched Billy. “I just felt lonely and homesick.”

“Get up,” said the stern Tam. “Up wi’ ye, ye whining little deevil. Is it no’ twice the laddie is coming.”


TAM took another machine, tested the gun and rose with Billy to join the flight. He had reached the high level when a Lucas lamp flickered from the aerodrome.

Tam read the message: “Von Haarden coming back. Get him this time.”

For ten minutes Tam searched the heavens in vain and presently he saw the big Albatross. It was flying much lower and again was heading straight for the aerodrome. Tam shot off three rounds from his gun and then thought of Billy.

Billy should have his chance. He signaled “Nearest attack,” and Billy swept down the six thousand feet which separated him from his enemy. Tam watched the planes growing nearer and nearer, saw Billy turn on a parallel course with the Albatross.

The boy might make sure but it was a terribly dangerous position to take. Closer and closer the planes approached one another. Billy would be waiting for von Haarden to show himself, and Tam watched as he dropped in a wide circle toward the two machines. And then an amazing thing happened. The Albatross and Billy’s scout were running almost side by side, and less than fifty yards separated them and nothing happened.

As Tam looked, he saw Billy bank over and turn, leaving the Albatross to pursue its course over the aerodrome. Almost immediately Blackie signaled “Flight return.”

When Tam reached the ground Billy was standing before Blackie.

“Well, Best,” said Blackie, “I’m afraid von Haarden’s won his bet.”

“Yes, sir,” said Billy simply.

“Did your gun jam?” asked Blackie.

“Did ye no’ fire?” Tam interrupted anxiously.

“No, sir,” said Billy. “I didn’t fire and my gun didn’t jam.”

“For God’s sake, what happened then?”

“I don’t understand it, sir,” said Billy, and his face was white. “It was awful. It can’t possibly have happened. I saw von Haarden as plainly as I see you —”

“And?” asked Blackie.

“He was dead, sir. He had been dead an hour,” said Billy.

An hour later a German Albatross crashed within a hundred yards of the aerodrome. It crashed because its petrol had run out. For two hours it had been moving in a wide circle that carried it from Mossy Face Wood to the aerodrome across the back areas, round to the wood again and again back to the aerodrome. It had been moving steadily, unswervingly, just so long as its petrol lasted, with a dead man’s stiff hand at its control—for Billy had killed him with his first shot.

“It’s a verra moot point,” said Tam to Billy that night as he sat on the edge of his bed smoking a cigar luxuriously, “whether that puir body, Mad Haarden, won his bet. Speakin’ theologically I think he did. and A’m goin’ over Mossy Face Wood tomorrow to drop a pair of yeer gloves.”

“Why my gloves?” demanded Billy truculently.</story>