<story title="BILLY BEST" date="1919">
TAM of the Scouts sat enthroned on the edge of the billiard table—which, appropriately enough, since he formed the topic of conversation, was a luxury donated by the Splendiferous Lieutenant Walker-Mannsell whose paternal relative was reputed to have so much money that he had refused war contracts. This Splendiferous One, still spoken of by the squadron with affection and amusement, lay in a little grave to the west of Mossy Face Wood, and that the squadron joked about him is accounted for by the fact that the men of the R.F.C. never die, and, accordingly, are never invested with solemn post-mortem virtues designed to prove that they were really too good to live.

Therefore he was “The Splendiferous One” and “S.W.M.” and men roared over the jokes told against him—and if they always ended the story with “good old Splendif, he was a lad of the village”—why, they would have done the same if he had been just outside the mess-room.

“A call to mind an argument wi’ Mr. Walker-Mannseel,” said Tam. (Observe that Tam was a sergeant when the boy was living and Tam regarded it as extremely disrespectful to quote the nickname he would never have employed to one who was his superior.) “’Twas hoo much an ordinary spendthreeft could spend in a day if he’d gie his mind to it—A said five dollars, but the wee lad rather thocht that if a body corn-centrated he micht spend seex.”

“Good old Splendiferous,” said Blackie, laughing with the rest; “but you haven’t told us what happened to Goldheimer.”

Tam had begun the story of the magnificent Goldheimer and had drifted through a dissertation on plutocracy in the field, to one of the best loved of his officers.

“Goldheimer” had been born Thysen-Hyndorpf. He had been born with a steel ingot in his mouth, for his parent had been the veritable Theodore Thysen, the Westphalian steel baron. His brother officers had named him Goldheimer and even worse, and in due course the fame of him came to the right side of the line, and his photograph, cut from a Berlin society journal, adorned the green notice-board of the mess of the Umpty-fourth.

There he smirked, with his stout, vacant face, his stiff little mustache, his tiny monocle, his imposing Pickelhaube, and men of the patrol on their way to the sheds would stop and examine the features thoughtfully and wonder if it was their luck to get him that day.

Goldheimer was rich—rich beyond the dreams of actresses. He was so rich that if he had written down his fortune in marks he would have had writer’s cramp before he reached the last cipher.

He was so offensively rich that every hard-up subaltern of the R.F.C. pined for his destruction.

“ ’Twas no’ like the lad to be oot before the air was war-m,” said Tam, resuming his narrative at the point where it had been diverted, “an’ ye may imagine ma surprise, when passin’ to the sooth o’ Cambrai—at the place where the Hoon has five or six bridges across the canal—to obsairve the expensive ootfit of Mc Goldheimer riskin’ the mornin’ air. There was no mistakin’ him. His seelver-mounted wings, the graund gold monogram on his silken wings, the filigree fusilage by Mr. Benny Vinturo, the heavy di’mond buckles to his stays, the jeweled engine an’ the gun-metal gunwork of his gun. ‘Tam,’ says A to mesel’, ‘are ye no’ ashamed to be seen oot in the same sky as yon? Awa’ wi’ ye!’ A says, ‘be off an’ brush yeer pants an’ change yeer cravat—look at Mc Goldheimer,’ A says, ‘take a lesson from him—follow him,’ A says—so A followed.

“He sat in his seat a fine figure of a man. His surtout or haubeck was of some clingin’ material that clung. Aboot his shapely heid was a broad band of dull gold richly encrusted wi’ uncut rubies; a simple collar of celluloid an’ mother-of-pairl or father-of-concrete completed the picture.

“A dived for to make his acquaintance. But he was prood. The haughty intolerance which comes from generations spent in the board-room cuttin’ down expenses would not allow him to unbend. He side-flopped wi’ dignity, but A was no’ to be shaken off.

“‘Ma mannie,’ says’ A, ‘do ye no’ ken that Tam o’ the Scoots is on yeer trail? Have ye no creepin’ sensation up an’ down yeer spine to tell ye that the terror of the cloods is stayin’ wi’ ye?’ Apparently not. Wi’ the courage of despair the reckless millionaireman tairned on his remorseless pursuer, his coorse face inflamed wi’ drink, high livin’ an’ annoyance. He glared at his persecutor, the gold fillin’s of his teeth quiverin’ with passion.

“Glancin’ scornfully at his puny opponent he banked o’er and got the sun* of his absent-minded but resourceful foe. ’Twas a contest that Homer or Rudyard Kiplin’ would have taken the elevator to see. Capital an’ labor battled in the cloods. The hated money classes an’ the sweatin’ proletariat joined issues. The idle rich—an’ no’ so idle wasn’t that lad as ye’ll notice, if ye take a squint at the wings of ma wee Kitten—the idle rich an’ the haggard toiler, alone, or nearly alone, under the watchin’ stars, focht that the wairld should be made safe for democracy.

[* “Getting the sun” is to get between the sun and your enemy.]

“It ended a’ too soon,” said Tam sadly. “A came down in a fine dive an’ loosed ma last drum at the diamond sun-burst he wore on the back of his neck an’ he responded. Instantly gold bullets was hailin’ aboot my ears. If A’d stayed long enough A’d have died a millionaire. Dazzled an’ blinded A broke off the unequal contest an’ dropped slowly to airth.”

“Which means that Goldheimer’s patrol got on your tail and strafed you?” suggested Baxter.

“Aye—something like that,” admitted Tam; “there were ten o’ the lads—Tam could have tackled nine—but the fearless boy fra’ Glasgow was outnumbered.”

“Goldheimer putting on frills?” somebody asked and Tam smiled.

“A’d be sorry to lose the wee feller—he’s a graund practise for the young an’ inexperienced aviator.”

In real life, whatever may be the case in fiction, the multi-millionaire, even though he may have inherited his fortune, is very infrequently a fool. He may generally be distinguished by his uneasiness, his suspicion and that shrewd business ability which we associate with confidence men. Nor are stout young men who affect monocles and wear ridiculous mustaches necessarily brainless, lethargic and addicted to the four a.m. habit.

Goldheimer was a notable illustration of the fact that great possessions sometimes go hand in hand with great mental capacities.

Many crack pilots, French and British, had gone out to say how d’ye do to the Goldheimer patrol and had come back more cracked than ever. He was fat but nippy. His eye was glassy, but behind the sights of a machine-gun it had all the robust qualities of the big game hunter. He was ridiculous but his airmanship was sublime. The scalps of seventeen British machines hung to his bomb-proof wigwam and he was always out to add to his collection.

“As like as not the puir lad’ll be shot down by an Archie that’s aimin’ at somethin’ else,” said Tam, “or he’ll fall to the kindergarten—”

“Which reminds me,” said Blackie, looking up from his cards, “I am going to plant a Hun** on you.”

[ *“Hun” is a term applied to all aviation recruits.]

“A Hun!” said Tam is consternation.

Blackie’s eyes twinkled as he nodded.

“Cadet William Best of the United States Army,” he said. “They are breaking up the kindergarten and attaching one youngster to each of the French and British squadrons. As a matter of fact,” he went on, “you will find William quite a pleasant young man, he has already had some air-fighting experience. He attached himself to the Camelot Squadron about six months ago and though he has not undergone his full technical course, he is a pretty wise bird.”

Tam had got down from the billiard table and was looking dolefully at his superior.

“Am A to understand, Major Blackie, sir, that A must teach this young gentleman controls?”

“No, no, Tam,” laughed Blackie, “not so bad as that. You will just give him tips on air fighting. From what I have heard of him he does not require much tuition. Be at the office to-morrow morning at ten o’clock and I will introduce you.”

At that hour Tam met his pupil. He was young, very young. His face was fresh and pink like a girl’s, his gray eyes, full of laughter, were lit with those eager fires which God kindles in children to warm the ashes of their parents’ hearts.

“This is Cadet Best,” introduced Blackie; “this is Second Lieutenant McTavish who will take you under his wing.”

“Glad to meet you,” said Cadet William Best joyously and extended a large, firm hand.

Tam and his charge surveyed one another in an amused silence.

“That is all,” said Blackie after an embarrassing pause.

Tam jerked his head to his companion and they passed out of the office.

“Have ye a bed, sir?” asked Tam.

“Sure—I carry one around in my grip,” said the cheerful youth.

“What A mean,” said Tam, “have ye a place to lay yeer weary heid if ye survive the dangers an’ perils o’ the elements?”

Cadet William Best grinned and shook a head which in its bright-eyed alertness showed no signs of weariness.

“Weel,” said Tam, “ye’ll bunk wi’ me. If ye leave the door open an’ sleep wi’ yeer feet oot o’ the window there’ll be room for ye.”

No other word was spoken. Tam led the way with dignity, opened the door of his quarters and ushered his friend into the little room.

“Do ye smoke?”

“Sure.”

“Would ye like a seegair?”

“Try me.”

Tam thought a while. “Yeer too young for seegairs,” he said; “they try the nairves an’ weaken the nairvous system—A’ll give ye a stick o’ candy.”

He groped under his bed and produced a large box of familiar tint and embellishment. This he opened, disclosing a platoon of large cigars lying stiffly at “attention” wearing the gold and scarlet waist-belts of their caste.

“Perhaps ye’d better smoke,” said Tam gloomily; “they cost one franc twenty-five per, an’ A doot if they’re paid for.”

“Fine,” said Mr. Best enthusiastically; “these look good to me—where do you buy ’em?”

“A dinna buy seegairs,” said Tam. “They’re donated by ma friends, admirers—an’ pupils.”

“I get you,” nodded the other, puffing luxuriously.

“A’m a prood an’ tetchy feller,” said Tam; “ye must no’ hairt ma feelin’s by handin’ ’em to me in a coorse an’ brutal manner. Ye must just leave ’em aroond careless an’ A’ll find ‘em—yeer name is William, A doot?”

“William,” agreed the pupil.

“A’ll be callin’ ye Billy,” said Tam; “’tis a nickname A’ve invented. Ye’ll be Billy Best—no, ye’ll be Boy Billy Best inside this room so that ye may retain a sense of ma superiority in age, morals an’ proved efficiency. Ye may call me Tam an’ ye may sleep on that bed when the sheets are changed.”

“Where will you sleep?” demanded Billy Best with a hint of truculence in his tone.

Tam rubbed his chin. “A’ll sleep on the floor—A prefair it. A’ve never slept in a bed in ma life. Gie me a heap o’ slag an’ a couple o’ bricks an’ A wouldna’ call the king ma uncle.”

Billy drew at his cigar deliberately.

“You may can all that sleeping-on-the-cold-ground stuff,” he said; “the floor for mine—I’m a hog-sleeper. Nothing short of a head-on collision wakes me and I prefer broken glass to Ostermoors.”*

[* An American matress brandname.]

“A could never sleep in a bed,” protested Tam; “’tis effiminate practise an’ weakens the army’s morale.”

The timely arrival of the quartermaster sergeant with a fatigue party and a second bed put an end to the discussion.

It was after this was installed and the heavy-footed mechanics had departed that Billy Best, acquainting himself with his new surroundings, discovered things behind a cretonne curtain—four rows of shelf tightly packed with literature; not the commonplace literature stiffly bound and consistently neglected which you would find in a library of the literary dilettante; not the musty tomes that decorate the study of the professor, but bright, vital, red-blooded stories between paper covers of lurid design.

Tam was writing at his table when he heard a gasp and looking up, went very red, for Billy Best, his eyes blazing with joy, was examining a twenty- four page monograph devoted to the life and death of Yellowstone Jim who was (as the explanatory subtitle revealed) The Lone Bandit of Crow’s Nest Canyon.

“Ye’ll no’ want to be readin’ that stuff,” said Tam uncomfortably—he was a little sensitive with strangers; “they belong to a young frind o’ mine.”

“Do you mean to say you haven’t read them?” asked the amazed youth. “See here—if you haven’t, make a start. This is the only stuff worth reading. You can have your Scotts and Dickenses and Thackerays—this is meat.”

“Weel,” said Tam, “A’ll no’ say A haven’t glanced through these degradin’ wairks of fiction.”

“Aw!” grunted the boy, “degrading nothing—this is life! Look at this one, ‘The Pawnee Cache or Black Dick’s Fight for Fortune’—one of the best yarns—”

“Mon, it’s easy to see ye’ve no’ read—here gie me the books—here it is. ‘Mollie the Moorman or The Thugs of Utah’—when ye’re talkin’ aboot stories will ye cast yeer eye o’er that yin!”

Tam was excited now—Billy Best’s voice was raised to a key of dispute.

“You’re nutty, Tam! This Pawnee Cache yarn—”

We may leave them to their disputation. Wiser men, men grown gray in the service of Arts and Letters, have argued as fiercely and with less kindliness over matters in no sense more important.

At ten o’clock the next morning Tam and his new assistant took the air—Tam at the controls, Billy in the cockpit for’ard.

Tam’s plan was to spend the morning in stunts. He outlined the program after breakfast.

“We’ll acquaint ye with the spinnin’ nose-dive, the windmill loop, the tail dive, the oot o’ control dive, the stall an’ the fa’ an’ ither pretty exercises.”

“Bully,” said Billy.

“It’s verra dangerous,” cautioned Tam.

“I’ll bet you won’t hurt Tam,” said Billy, “and if you don’t hurt Tam you won’t hurt Billy.”

“Sometimes,” said Tam, “the controls go wrang—sometimes when one’s thinkin’ o’ trouble doon drops the Imperial Gairman Circus “

“Circuses arc my vice,” said Billy, speaking with some difficulty.

“A’m no’ so sure o’ yeer judgment,” said Tam before the start; “but A like yeer appetite—do ye ever stop eatin,’ Billy?”

Billy blushed guiltily and almost choked in swallowing the chunk of candy that was bulging his cheek.

“My people send me lots of candy,” he said apologetically; “it helps pass time between smokes.”

“It takes attention from the wairk,” said Tam sternly; “ha’ ye any in yeer pooch?”

Billy meekly produced from the pocket of his leather jacket a sticky mass so completely at one with its paper wrapping that it was difficult to tell where paper ended and candy began.

Tam took it with a grimace of disgust, bit it in two and handed the other half to its owner.

“Do you like it?” asked Billy anxiously.

“A have no’ finished eatin’ through the paper,” mumbled Tam; “in wi’ ye!”


HE PUSHED the machine steeply upward, grinned as he saw the boy handling the gun in the bow and cast his hopeful eyes round to left and right for something to kill, and banked to reach a cloud base.

His scheme was to go through the mist “all out”—an unnerving experience for the tyro—and to end with a nose fall. He opened up, hit the cloud and was instantly engulfed in a blind white mist, so dense that glancing back he could only catch occasional glimpses of his tail.

The gloom, at first hardly noticeable, increased in density. From pale gray the light went yellow, umber and then a blackness as of night.

Tam glanced at his compass and brought the head of his machine to the north; but three minutes passed without the darkness lessening. It was not an unusual experience for Tam, whatever it might be for the boy in the cockpit. The density and width of clouds are difficult to gage, particularly when they are approached at their own level.

Another minute passed and Tam moved the joy-stick. The nose of the machine dropped and down, down roared the big airplane.

Billy had a momentary sensation of sickness, but that passed. He felt that nature with her trick of improvising conditions to meet circumstances had rearranged his digestive system so that it should be as near as possible to his throat. He moved his head slightly to get a better view of the nothingness which was leaping to meet him, and the pressure of the air nearly wrenched his head from his neck. Then the blackness blended swiftly with umber-yellow-gray, and Billy was looking down at a neat little world all checkered with fields and laced with white roads. Also, there were five airplanes about a thousand feet beneath and each of these bore on its wings that strange device, a black iron cross.

If the truth be told there was nothing auriferous or magnificent in the appearance of Goldheimer’s patrol. There were neither silver fittings nor gold mountings nor jeweled holdings. It was just a business-like collection of fighting planes. Tam knew it—Billy knew nothing except that This Was the Life.

“Gun!” wheezed a voice through the speaking tube; “aim between ... pilot ... obsairver ... tak’ the left-hand machine ... don’t tak’ yeer eyes off him till he crashes.”

Billy Best adjusted his sights with a jerk of his hand.

“Fire!” thundered a voice in his ear and Billy fired.

The leader’s machine put up her tail and dropped, Tam in pursuit, four enemy machines behind him.

“He’s smokin’, Billy!” yelled the voice in the speaking tube; “hit him anither crack an’ get ready to shoot up.”

Billy was obeying when the machine turned over and slipped sideways. He looked round and met the goggled eyes of Tam—or one eye, for the other was screwed up in a ferocious wink. Another machine was swooping and Billy brought up the muzzle of his gun and sent a shower of nickel ripping through the canvas of the wing. Amateurs’ luck is proverbial. Before he knew what had happened or realized that he had brought it about in some mysterious way, the wing of the attacker collapsed. It leaped up as though it had been struck by a gigantic hammer from beneath.

Round went Tam’s machine to avoid the debris—there was a momentary glimpse of a falling body, of two figures helmeted and masked, of a big white tail ornamented with iron crosses—and then nothing.

Tam had maneuvered for height, but the three enemy machines had reformed and were full of fight.

The little pilot weighed the chances and decided in favor of an early lunch. He feinted to climb, then, without warning, dropped earthward, skimming over the lines and rising only sufficiently to clear the avenue of poplars two miles beyond which the aerodrome lay.

He unstrapped himself and assisted Billy Best to land.

“Weel?” he asked.

Billy’s face was sad, his tone querulous. “Why didn’t you let me finish the others?” he demanded.

Tam looked him over before replying. “D’ye ken what ye’ve done this morn, ma lad?” he asked.

“Sure—I’ve brought down two machines, but—”

“Does it penetrate to that desolation ye call a mind, that ye’ve strafed the greatest Gairman airman, bar Richtofen?”

The eyes of Billy Best lit up. “Richtofen—he’s the Big Thing, isn’t he?” he asked eagerly.

“The biggest,” said Tam.

“Where’s he to be found?” demanded the boy.

Tam removed his leather helmet and wiped his brow. “Do ye want to go up noo—an’ look for him?”

“Sure thing—why not?”

“Haund over that stick o’ candy ye’re hidin’—an’ behave,” said Tam sternly.

And they went over to the office together to report, chewing industriously.</story>