<story title="THE WOMAN IN THE STORY" date="1919">
TAM walked to the door of his hut and peered cautiously forth. He commanded a view of one corner of the aerodrome, but it was a corner from which Cadet William Best was not in sight, and Tam closed the door and returned to his writing-table, muttering uncomplimentary words.

He squared his shoulders to the monumental task he had set himself. Filed neatly before him in the heart of an official blue folder labeled “Corps Orders,” the flaps outspread and ready to be closed at the first alarm, were some hundred quarto sheets of manuscript written in Tam’s peculiar caligraphy.

The first page bore, one under the other, some five titles, all of which had been crossed out. So whatever this thrilling romance might be called eventually, it would not be, “The Terror of the Sky,” or “The Birdman of Blood,” or “The Crime in the Clouds,” or “Looping Larry’s Last Lap,” nor even “The Pirate Pilot.”

This was Tam’s guilty secret, a secret he shared with Boy Billy Best. He was writing a book; at least he and Billy were writing it in collaboration, for if there was some uncertainty as to what the title of this “Story of Mystery and Crime” (to quote the subtitle) should be, its authorship was definitely ascribed in carefully printed characters to “Tam McTavish, R.F.C., and Cadet William Best, U. S. Army.”

Tam took up his pen, dipped it slowly in the ink and wrote:

“It was a terrible moment for the brave lads of the air. What should they do? Hector felt his heart beating, his throat was filled with black rage and hate, his hands were working convulsively.”

Beyond this Tam could not make Hector go. Hector was the hero who had been sent forward from the City of the Plains to make a reconnaissance. The City of the Plains (conveniently adjacent to the Mexican border) was awaiting the advent of an invading army and Hector had discovered that same army advancing through a pass in the mountains.

The scene had been laid, against Tam’s better judgment, in America. Tam had suggested that it should be laid in Scotland, a suggestion which Billy had rejected with scorn.

“The Scots haven’t got any enemies.”

“A’m no’ so sure about that,” said Tam.

“Well, who would you be at war with, anyway? You haven’t anybody on your borders who are likely to invade Scotland except the English.”

Tam shook his head in doubt.

“There’s a gey lot of tourists come to Scotland in the summer,” he said, but he had agreed that his suggestion was weak. So the story became American, and Tam was reconciled to the overriding of his views by the fact that the American public would “go crazy,” as said the enthusiastic Billy.

“A’m no’ so sure,” said Tam, “that they’ll go as crazy as that. Noo, my idea is that we’ve got this story a’ wrong. Theer’s nae woman in it—”

“Woman!” scoffed Billy Best. “You’re mushy, Tam! What’s a woman to do with flying? For the Lord’s sake!”

“Ye talk like the meenister of the wee kirk,” said Tam; “’tis a wonder ye fly at a’ wi’ such a wind-pressure, Billy. There’s nae sentiment in ye. Mon, where’s the gentle-faced dauchter of the auld trapper that’s been lured awa’ by the deadly Choctaws? Wheer’s the Pride of Minin’ Camp wi’ a pair o’ six-shooters? Have ye ever known a story that hadn’t a girlie in it?”

“This is a story,” insisted the obstinate Billy,” of flying, and there isn’t going to be a woman in it—it’ll be a novel story.”

“Ye’re inhuman,” said Tam, but he did not press the matter.

And here he was held up and Billy, the faithless collaborator, who had sworn by all his gods, including Gee and Giminy and Gosh, that he would return at four o’clock from Amiens, had not kept his appointment.

Tam made one more attack upon Hector before he laid down his pen, but the attack was repulsed with heavy losses to Tam’s confidence and, with a sigh, he folded away the manuscript and locked it in his drawer.

He made a careful search of Billy’s belongings, felt in his pockets, opened his suitcase, groped under his bed, turned back his pillows and found the box of cigars that Billy had secreted, helped himself, replacing the box under his own pillow, and made his way to the mess-room.

Half a gale was blowing and the sky was filled with flying clouds, and Tam did not need to pause at the notice-board in the mess-room to read the weather report and forecast. There would be no “Wind S. W. 6 miles at 3,000 feet, light ground mists,” for the barometer was still falling.

In these circumstances he expected to find the mess full and was not disappointed. The smoking-room was crowded, for such weather as this which makes flying impossible, enables airmen to pay social calls upon their fellows and adds a pleasant variety to the bridge-tables, which are inclined to become rather monotonous and stodgy when the same people play night after night.

There were no cards on the table, partly because the visitors were sitting on them and partly because there was a great discussion in progress.

Weatherby, squadron commander of the Umpty-ninth, with two rows of ribbons on his breast and only a faint suspicion of hair on his upper lip, yelled a welcome to Tam as he came in.

“Ask Tam!” he shouted—you had to shout to make yourself heard when twenty-five strategists were all offering their views at one and the same time.

Blackie looked round over his shoulder. “What do you think, Tam, about the offensive? Where is it going to be?”

“Or is it going to happen at all?” demanded Weatherby. “We’ve just come down from the Ypres salient. No signs of Huns there, except the usual crowd.”

“How far did you go back?” demanded Blackie.

“As far as Namur. The only remarkable thing about the trip was the number of ‘hates’ I got. I was hated in all sorts of funny places where you never saw an Archie battery before.”

“Railway junctions?” suggested somebody.

Weatherby shook his head. “No,” he said, “you expect them there. On plain bits of the line where there are no villages or houses, in open fields—there was no method about it. I was quite rattled after a bit. Of course, they gave me hell at Namur, but that is understandable. But why should I get hell at Wieglehoek, which has one farm, a church and an estaminet?”

“The Huns are trying out some new Archie batteries,” suggested Rolls of Weatherby’s squadron.

“That hasn’t answered our question,” said Blackie; “is there going to be an offensive and where? What do you say, Tam?”

“A’m no’ so sure,” said Tam. “A was taking a peek behind the St. Quentin front on the Sabbath and A was hated verra brightly, but there was nothing strange so far as ma puir auld eyes could tell. The peaceful land was bathed in sunlight, the little bairds were singing, and a regiment of Huns was marching away from kirk, behind their band—a gay an’ gallant display. As A looked doon, the sicht of these martial men in their gentle mood, retairning maybe from a heartrending sermon about the Kaiser to their warm Sunday sausage brocht a lump to ma throat. Ma first inclination was to loose a couple of trays of ammunition at them, but ma better feelings prevailed.

“‘No, no, Tam,’ says I, ‘yer too far off and ye mayn’t hit ’em. What did the government give ye bombs for?’ So I dropped a couple right in the middle of ’em.”

“Did they scatter?” asked Weatherby.

“They seemed a bit put oot,” said Tam, “but A didn’t wait, for all the Archies in the world opened up on me.”

“Some people think it will be down in the Champagne.” said Blackie, “against the French. Demaurier was telling me the other day that his people had spotted a concentration there.”

“More likely the Aubers Ridge.” said Weatherby, shaking his head; “there’s a sure break-through there in the angle of the Lys and the Lawe. Besides, they’ve got the ridge for observation and that’s a big advantage.”

“What was the quietest sector all last year? Was it no’ between Arras and St. Quentin? Mon, I’ve flown fifty miles along that line and never seen a German in the air. I took a flight down there last week and had to fight my way oot. There’s more caircuses between Quéant and St. Quentin than Barnum ever heard aboot.”

“But no concentrations?” asked Weatherby.

Tam shook his head.

Billy Best was waiting for Tam when the pilot returned to his room. “Where did ye get to, Billy?” demanded Tam reproachfully; “for two hours A’ve been wastin’ ma time discussin’ the strategy an’ tactics o’ the war when A micht ha’ been followin’ ma literary career. ‘What would ye do,’ sez the young gentleman to me, ‘suppose ye was Hindenburg?’ ‘Change ma face,’ I says. “Would ye attack frontally or sideways?’ they asked, ‘or would ye use strategy or tactics or a little of both?’ says they. Mon, they were frichtfully struck on ma tellin’ ’em, but I wouldna!”

Tam sat down to his table and jerked out the manuscript.

“’Tis a graund nicht for romance. Billy,” he said, “but A’m stuck. A’ve got Hector in an awfu’ position—listen to this:

“Hector glanced left and right an’ behint him. There was no one in sicht but the hated foe. His radiator was smashed an’ his intake—’”

“See here, Tam,” said Billy in his shirtsleeves, with his back to his companion, “why not make Hector pancake or crash and have him rescued by a beautiful French girl who hides him, eh?” his voice was careless, so was his hand, for as he splashed water into the big enameled basin, preparatory to making his evening ablutions, certain errant drops reached Tam’s neck, “or, how would it be if a mysterious triplane comes barging out of a cloud and rescues the falling hero, and it turns out that this fellow—”

“The clood or the triplane?” asked Tam politely.

“This pilot fellow, I mean, isn’t a man at all, but just a peach of a French girl?”

Tam put down his pen and turned. “Billy,” he said, eying the boy keenly, “what’s the matter wi’ ye?”

Billy blushed and rubbed his face vigorously with a towel.

“Oh, nothing,” he said airily.

“Where have ye been?” asked Tam.

“Well, to be honest, Tam—I’ve been to see a friend of mine.”

“I feared it,” said Tam sadly. “What’s her name and in what store in Peronne does she sairve the picture postals to the ribald soldiery?”

Billy blushed more furiously than ever.

“Oh, you know her, do you, Tam? She’s just fine, that girl! Think of it! She’s never been out of the battle zone—her brother was killed at Roye and her father at Verdun and she just hangs on with her mother and won’t budge. They’re wonderful, these Frenchwomen, pour la France, and all that sort of thing, Tam—full of grand spirit and—”

“Hark at the heathen American talking French!” said Tam addressing the roof; “‘pour la France,’ says he, an’ it’s been pourin’ all the day. Billy, when ye were pourin’ la France over a grocery counter did ye no’ think of the girl ye left in Washin’ton, Ohio, or whatever the shire may be? Did ye no’ remember the girl that stood on the quay at Phullydelphia an’ watched the big ship carry ye away, her bright an’ luminous eyes filled wi’ tears? Did ye no’ recall Maisie—”

“Maisie!” gasped Billy, recovering from the trance into which Tam’s inventive genius had thrown him, “I don’t know—I haven’t a girl—and, anyway, I didn’t sail from Philadelphia.”

Tam replaced the manuscript and rose. “Billy,” he said, “A’m goin’ to talk to ye fer yeer good.”

“Have a cigar,” invited Billy hastily.

“Ye can’t bribe me—unless ye’ve something better than the cheap trash ye keep under yeer pillow—anyway, A don’t want to smoke. Billy—it’s a graund idea, the descendants of George L. Washin’ton—”

“What’s the L for, anyway?” growled Billy.

“Late,” replied Tam calmly; “it’s a graund idea for the great-grandson of George L. Wash’in’ton to wed the heiress of the McLafayette, but, Billy, we can’t do it—”

“Who’s talking of marrying?” grumbled the boy. “She wouldn’t have me, anyway. I don’t want to do anything but just look at her—God, it makes me feel good. Tam! It’s like a mind bath to know that that kid has just stuck to her post—when the Boche was in Peronne, when the Somme battle was in full swing and is still carrying on.”

Tam was silent. He had an instinct as delicate as a woman’s and he visioned the clean splendor of the boy’s mind.

“Oh, aye,” he said gently, “tis a fine race, Billy, even if they do charge ye the price for butter that ye ought to pay.” (Tam had taken on temporarily the post of mess caterer during the president’s absence on leave and the price of local luxuries had left their mark upon him.) “But A doot if Peronne’s a good place to be.”

“She’s all right,” said Billy confidently; “she’s got a big dugout behind the store and when the Boche is night bombing, she skips in there.”

“A’m no’ thinkin’ of night bombin’,” said Tam. “Billy, the Boche is gettin’ ready for his big push—he’ll take Peronne.”

“Rats,” scoffed Billy.

“Ah weel,” said Tam, and that ended the discussion.


THE next day was fine and Tam made a reconnaissance eastward—so far eastward that he saw....

Back he came at top speed, dodging barrage of shell and airplane, intent only upon carrying the information he had acquired to headquarters.

The British knew the worst three days before the blow fell—but three days is all too short a warning. Divisions began moving from remote corners of France, but still with caution. Reserves stood in readiness from Dunkirk to Champagne—but at any moment a change of enemy direction might be noted.

Fourteen divisions strung along a front of fifty miles, three divisions in the rear their only reserves, and, on top of it all, fog! Fog that hid the railways, the roads, the vital nodal points! Fog that tied the fuming airmen to the ground while the rumble of the guns increased to a thunderous chorus! Fog that lifted tantalizingly and sent hundreds of machines roaring upward only to come groping their way back at terrible peril to themselves. Not a fog as you understand fog—a thick wall which blots out immediate objects—but the fog which blurs all objects on the ground at a distance of a thousand feet.

Then came the night of the twentieth. Somewhere in the mist behind the horizon formed by the spires and roofs of Cambrai, behind the stark woods and the rolling hills, lay danger. The horizon itself was blurred and limited by the mists which kept the outposts straining ears and eyes for some hint of the mystery which overhangs all battle-fields on the eve of an offensive. Gunner officers in their solitary observation posts could do no more than record the hits that came within their restricted view. The telltale flash of enemy guns was hidden from them and such counter battery work as “O.Pip” could control was little.

[* Observation post.]

Save for the ceaseless clang of the opposing artilleries which had grown in intensity during the night, there was no sign of unusual activity. “O. Pip” reported strange happenings he had witnessed in the twilight; for example, he had seen German field batteries gallop up into action and unlimber. He had seen the teams gallop back again, leaving the guns stranded and apparently unattended, though he guessed that the gun crew had dug themselves in, or had taken positions near trenches which the obliging German infantry had dug for them on the previous night.

The guns were too near the enemy’s front line to capture, and an inquisitive patrol of the Black Watch which went out to investigate, not this but other strange phenomena the night before, had not returned. A kilted figure lying on the German wire had been revealed through glasses, but even this told the men nothing. Fog and the night hid the feverish preparations which were going on at the back of beyond. The French and British airmen going about their desperate business, could switch their bomb releases and send their whistling charges into the black void below, could in the momentary glare of the explosion glimpse tiny transport lorries and black snakes of men threading the narrow streets of the town, or in the bursting white light of a flare, note the congestion of carriages and trucks in the railway station they were attacking, but such things indicated no more than normal activities on the part of the army.

And yet from a hundred stations and sidings, the men in field gray were pouring, knapsacks belted about with their heavy great-coats and crowned with spare boots, bombs at their belts, two days’ rations of food and an iron ration in their haversacks, one hundred and fifty rounds of ammunition in their pouches, gas-masks at the “ready” and the gripping fear of the morrow in their hearts.


STORM troops, those ugly darlings of the corps, were there, lightly equipped, but well supplied with bombs. The gas corps, the flame-throwing corps and, somewhere in the background, those sinister Pomeranians whose duty it is to strip and bury the dead.

All night long the reserves were moving up, for it was the eve of “Michael’s Day,” the day of victory, the day of vengeance. The British line was to be pierced and turned northward, the French pushed back beyond the swampy estuary of the Somme—and then in good time and at the Germans’ leisure, both enemy armies were to be destroyed.

Endless were the columns that came tramping through the night; never ceasing was the clatter and clamor of shunting trucks and rolling wheels. Von Berne’s corps to the north was deploying. Lindequist’s corps on his left was up to fullest strength and had a reserve division to make sure. Kuhne’s, Grunert’s and Stael’s corps—a phalanx of gray coats accurately marshalled under Otto von Below, the newest German hero.

The Umpty-fourth stood waiting in the mist, standing by their machines—waiting, waiting—

“My God, this is awful—this mist! Do you think—do you think they’ll take Peronne—but she’d have time to clear, wouldn’t she, Tam—”

Tam made no reply.

Not that day nor yet the next was Peronne taken. There were days and nights of furious, frantic endeavor, when men worked and fought without sleep, when the Umpty-fourth aerodrome was shelled to a blackened heap, when day reconnaissance followed night bombing without intermission, and haggard-faced pilots hawked through the skies, sustained by the sense of the army’s imminent peril.

THE day after Peronne fell Blackie sent for Tam. They were occupying a new aerodrome to the west of the Amiens line and Tam had slept for six hours on the bare ground, a sleep of sheer exhaustion, when he was awakened by Blackie’s summons. That great man, unshaven, chewing vigorously at the end of a cold cigar, beckoned Tam into the hut which served as his headquarters.

“A special mission for you, Tam,” he said; “there’s a woman in Peronne who calls herself Marie Vaupois. Her real name is Clara Geth. She was left behind in Peronne when the Germans evacuated the town, and she had collected a whole bunch of information. Our intelligence tells us that she’s leaving at eleven o’clock by motor-car for Spa. I haven’t time to tell you how she hoodwinked the French authorities or impersonated the daughter of a French soldier, but she kept a little picture-post-card shop.”

Tam put his hand to his eyes. “Aye,” he said unsteadily. “What would ye have me do, Captain Blackie, sir?”

“It’s a chance in a hundred, but you may have the luck,” said Blackie rapidly; “she mustn’t reach Spa. She carries too much in her head for our comfort. Kill her. You can either bomb her or machine-gun her, but she’s got to be killed. It’s a rotten job, I know,” he said clapping the other on the shoulder, “but if you look carefully over the ground, Tam, as you pass, you will see hundreds of our own fellows who are lying unburied because a woman like that has been working secretly—”

“Oh aye,” said Tam.

He swung out without another word. The riggers had finished repairing his machine and she was loaded up. Soon he was zooming up into the clear skies, heading for Peronne. He fought off an attempt that was made to intercept him and a few minutes before eleven reached the north road which runs through Gouzeaucourt.

The roads were crowded with troops, but presently he saw a car speeding up one side which had been left clear and he dropped for observation and attack. The lorry Archies blazed at him. Machine guns came into action and their bullets zipped through his wings. He saw the troops break from the road to cover but the car sped on and at the back he caught a glimpse of a woman with a purple motor-veil and swooped down almost vertically, his machine gun cackling furiously.

Nothing could live under such a fire. He had one glimpse of a huddled figure in the tonneau before the car swerved into a ditch and overturned. Then he set his face for home.

He landed in the aerodrome and Billy came to meet him with a radiant face.

“Tam, Tam,” he yelled, “I’ve had news!”

Tam’s heart stood still.

“Have ye, Billy?” he said quietly.

“She got away, Tam. Nobody saw her after the Germans came in, and her house wasn’t touched. Isn’t that bully? Gee! I’d like to see her just for two minutes,” said the boy, his eyes shining.

Tam looked down. For his part he was trying not to see her.</story>