<story title="THE HOLD-UP" date="1924">
LORD FELBORO stood by the window of his library, looking out upon the gloomy street with a frown upon his face. Night was falling, and the wet pavements reflected the gleam of the lamps. The library was in darkness, save for the red glow of the fire which burnt in the silver grate. Presently he turned slowly and addressed the unprepossessing man who sat huddled in a deep armchair, his fingers beating a nervous tattoo upon the padded arm.

"My dear Tasker," he said, in his suave, even tone, "you are rattled! And when you are rattled, you are a fool—a child, who starts at every creak of the floor and the howl of every gust of wind that comes down the chimney. 'The Earl of Nowhere' is probably Mr. William Sikes."

"He doesn't write like a burglar," growled the other fearfully. "I don't like it, Felboro—"

"Thanks to the spread of popular education," said Lord Felboro coolly, "even burglars can compose letters and inscribe them in a fair round hand. Personally, I take no notice of anonymous letter-writers, and less notice when they describe themselves by a title which is extinct. I tell you I knew Saltesh very well indeed. He died unmarried and without legal issue. I was the trustee of his estate: who should know better?"

"You were such a mighty good trustee that there's no estate left," growled Sir Charles Tasker. "That is why he's after you, Felboro."

Lord Felboro laughed quietly.

"Then why doesn't he come into the open? If he thinks that I have robbed him, there are the law courts: I understand that they still function. No, my dear fellow, you're crazy. And as for the Earl of Nowhere, whose face has not been seen, who has neither lawyer nor banker, nor, for the matter of that, identity, he is in all probability a vulgar blackmailer, and having a dim idea that I helped myself to the Saltesh property and dissipated the mythical thousands, thinks to frighten me into paying."

Sir Charles's lips curled in a sneer.

"Don't let us pretend to one another, Felboro," he said. "You had every penny that old Saltesh left; you squandered it at Monte Carlo and Deauville, to say nothing of a few score of race-tracks all over the country. You'd be in a devil of a mess if there was an heir to the Saltesh title."

Lord Felboro did not speak for a while, slowly pacing the room, his hands in his pockets, his chin on his breast.

"We will leave Saltesh out of the question for the moment," he said at last. "The point is, are you going to help me on Wednesday?"

"No!" The word was almost shouted, and again his lordship laughed.

"What are you afraid of?"

"I'm afraid of many things," said Tasker, in a grating tone. "I'm afraid about that Selby.... Yes, you can laugh, but the Government are not going to take that lying clown. You can't drug and kidnap a King's Messenger without a come-back."

"I hate your cheap American slang," said Felboro calmly, helping himself to a cigarette from the silver box on the table. "There has already been a come-back, as you call it. I have had detective officers in this very room, questioning me as to where I left Jim Selby after I met him at Victoria Station; and I told them that, as we drove along Victoria Street, he asked if he could get out of the car and walk, and that was the last I saw of him."

Again Tasker's lips curled.

"They didn't suggest, by any chance, that you drugged Selby, brought him here and took the dispatches he was carrying, did they?" he sneered. "Do you think they don't know, Felboro?"

Lord Felboro chuckled.

"They were quite satisfied with my explanation," he said. "And now, are you going to help me?"

Tasker, the weaker man of the two, hesitated. He was, as his host never failed to remind him, in the same boat as Lord Felboro. They were two ruined men, their chief assets the title one inherited, the other bought in the days of his prosperity, and they were in urgent need of money.

"My dear, good fellow," Felboro continued, shrewdly scanning his companion in the half-light, and judging rightly that he was wavering, "if it comes to a showdown—I am now employing one of your favourite American expressions—in other words, if all the past is known, if the truth, not only about Saltesh, but a dozen little adventures in which you and I have participated, is exposed in cold print, what do you imagine will be the consequence? You and I have been Ali Baba, Dick Turpin, and all the discreditable fraternity of robbers rolled into one. We have lived by swindling, by cold-blooded thieving, and by almost every sort of crook work, for the past ten years—let us face the facts. You were rather anxious to do so a few minutes ago."

Sir Charles Tasker looked round nervously at the door.

"Vyvan is not in," said his lordship, slightly amused, "and if she were in, you may be sure that she would not betray me. One's child is loth to do that sort of thing, from a purely selfish point of view, perhaps, since the discredit which would come to me must inevitably be reflected upon her. I am being pressed for money; I need enormous sums to save me from bankruptcy."

"Why not go through the courts and end it? I'm thinking of doing so myself," growled Sir Charles.

"You're a fool," said the other contemptuously. "There is greater honour to be gained at the Old Bailey than In Carey Street by my code. And, besides, who is going to suspect me? And if they suspect me, who is going to dare put the law in motion without positive proof? My house in Grosvenor Gardens is as morally impregnable as was the old robber-baron's castle in the material sense."

In the silence which followed, the ticking of the little clock on the mantel-shelf came distinctly to the worried baronet.

"You can call it robbery, if you like."

"But this is robbery—bare faced—and I'm not in it. If you think I'm going to take a risk—"

"I shall be taking all the risk you're likely to take, my friend," said Felboro impatiently. "Do you imagine I am going to ask you to don a mask, or that I shall put a pistol in your hand and say, 'Go along and hold up the Rex Faston dinner-party'?"

Sir Charles looked at him suspiciously.

"Who are you going to get to do the dirty work?" he asked curiously.

The answer to his question was well timed. There was a knock at the door, and Felboro's shabby butler came into the room.

"Will you see Mr. Philip, sir?"

"In here," said his lordship curtly, and, when the servant had gone:

"Philip?" Tasker frowned. "Who the devil is he? Not—not Philip, the footman, from the Folly Club?" he gasped.

Lord Felboro nodded, and before the other could reply, the tall figure of the immaculate Philip appeared in the doorway.

"Don't go, Tasker. Come in, Philip, please, and sit down."

The footman came suspiciously into the room and looked from one to the other.

"Your lordship sent for me. I could not come before."

"I did not expect you before, Philip," said Lord Felboro suavely. And then, with scarcely a break, he asked: "When were you in prison last, Philip?"

The man started, and his brows met.

"In prison, my lord?" he faltered.

"You have been in prison several times," said Lord Felboro. "I think the last occasion was some four years ago. You have been in prison because you have not had proper direction."

Philip was silent.

"I thought nobody knew of my past," he said at last.

"It is nothing to be ashamed of," said his lordship, as he smilingly handed a box of cigars to the visitor. "There is only one crime I recognize, and that is the crime of being caught."

He saw Tasker's look of horrified warning, but proceeded.

"For the sake of a few paltry pounds you have been to penal servitude. Had been directed as I would have directed you, my dear Philip, you would not only have escaped penal servitude, but you would not now be a poor man, dependent upon the tips which the Folly members bestow upon you." He smiled cynically at the younger man.

"Precious few they are!" said the footman.

"Exactly. I am now going to put up a job for you, and I can do so without the slightest reservation, because, supposing that you wished to carry a story to the police, who on earth would take your word against mine? That is the great advantage of the position I occupy, Philip—my credibility. Your word, on the other hand, with your unfortunate record behind you, would never for a moment be believed. So you see"—he was addressing Tasker as much as the man—"I take absolutely no risk in putting before you a plan which I have most carefully thought out, and which, I think, will result in your enrichment—er—our mutual benefit."

Philip stood, twisting his hat in his hands, his eyes on the carpet, and Felboro watched him closely.

"I don't know whether your lordship is joking," he began, in a hesitant voice, "but if you're not—and there's big money—"

"Sit down," said Lord Felboro, and, head to head, they talked in low tones for the greater part of an hour.

* * * * *

Captain Jim Selby, King's Messenger, listened with amazement and concern as the bearded chief of the Criminal Intelligence Department gave his cold-blood version of a recent unpleasant adventure. He had arrived from Paris carrying important dispatches, and had been met at the station by a member of the peerage, who had offered to drive him to his house. Half-an-hour later, Jim Selby had been awakened by a policeman. He was sitting on the snow-covered steps of the Treasury in Whitehall.

"If Felboro drugged me with a cigarette," he said in bewilderment, "why on earth did he leave my dispatches? I had nothing else of value."

"That is what baffles me," said Superintendent Steel; "but there is no doubt whatever that Lord Felboro, in spite of his position, is a crook of crooks. He has a bad history."

"But Felboro is a rich man—" began

Jim, and then, as a horrible thought flashed through his mind: "His daughter—Lady Vyvan—she is not—"

He could not bring himself to put his fears into words, and was ridiculously elated when the superintendent shook his head.

"No, Lady Vyvan isn't in it, poor girl! As to Lord Felboro being a rich man—" He laughed. "Felboro has been a crook for the past fifteen years, to my knowledge, but has worked in such a clever way that he has left no loophole for us to grab him. He deals, but not exclusively, in big Stock Exchange swindles, and when he descends to stealing—and he has before now—if he does not steal diamonds or gold or precious stones, he takes something more valuable—information!"

"Information?" repeated the puzzled Jim.

The officer nodded.

"That is why he got, or tried to get, your dispatches. I understand they contained particulars of a new treaty, which has already affected the oil market."

"Then Felboro has benefited by reading the treaty?"

The officer shook his head,

"My own impression is that he had no time to read it I've spent two days tracking the oil operators, and I cannot connect him, directly or indirectly, with the big bear movement which started on the afternoon of your arrival in London. My own theory is that Felboro made a mess of things: he either hadn't time to read the treaty through, or to grasp its significance thoroughly. No, the big operator in oil is a mysterious gentleman named Smith, of Tonbridge. Who he is, heaven knows."

Jim smiled.

"Perhaps the Earl of Nowhere," he suggested, and to his surprise Superintendent Steel took his suggestion seriously.

"It may be," was his reply, but he refused to be drawn any further.

Jim Selby went out of Scotland Yard, his head in a whirl, and made his way towards the rendezvous that Vyvan had appointed in the scrawled note which he had received that morning.

Felboro a thief! He knew him for a gambler; he knew, too, that the man and his boon companion had been associated together in certain questionable transactions which had brought them to the very edge of the law. Men in his position could do, and sometimes did, shady things. He knew a cadet of a noble house who was spoken of as a cardsharp, but that Felboro could be a criminal seemed incredible.

He saw the girl sitting in one of the garden chairs that lined the deserted path near the pond, and thought at first that she had not seen him, for she did not raise her eyes even when he sank down in a chair by her side. If she knew! His one thought was how she might be spared the shock of knowledge. On this point he was determined: he must find some way by which she could be removed from the sinister association of her evil parent.

"Jim, do you know that my father is a thief?"

The question took Jim Selby's breath away. The pale, watery sunlight, which all the morning had gleamed reluctantly and at intervals through the racing cloud-rack, caught the girl's pale face as she turned to ask the question, and threw deeper shadows beneath the fine eyes which had not closed in sleep for two nights.

He would have turned the question with a jest, but there was something in Vyvan Sanclair's face which checked the smile that he forced to his lips.

"What a question to ask!" he began; but she stopped him.

"Jim, you came from Paris the other morning carrying dispatches. Father met you at the station and brought you home. Whether he drugged you in the car or after you came to the house, I do not know, but you were unconscious when I saw you—"

"You saw me?" he said in astonishment; and she nodded.

"He robbed you, or tried to rob you, my dear." Her hand sought his. "That is true, isn't it?"

He did not answer, and she went on:

"Father is a thief, Jim—isn't it horrible! The last lord of Felboro, with our traditions behind him!"

"You're probably mistaken." He tried again to turn the subject, but she smiled faintly.

"I'm leaving him after to-night—my aunt has asked me to stay with her. I should have gone this afternoon, but father says—Do you know Rex Faston?" she asked.

Everybody knew, or knew of, Rex Faston. He was the one war millionaire whom peace had further enriched. He had dabbled in steel, in ships, cotton, munitions and exchanges, and had climbed out of every market with an enlarged fortune. A hopeless little vulgarian, with a passion for display, he had purchased a ducal town house, where he entertained on a scale that would have abashed Heliogabalus. It was Rex who gave a dance and spent eight thousand pounds on floral decorations alone. Mrs. Rex carried on her plump person a fabulous fortune in pearls alone, and her emeralds were accounted the finest collection in the world. And she generally wore them all on great occasions.

"I know Rex and Mrs. Rex," said Jim with a wry face. "I met the lady in Paris last winter—she had everything on except the kitchen stove."

Vyvan nodded.

"Were dining there to night—and father insisted that I should go. Mr. Faston expects a royal personage, though father says that nobody of importance will be there. It is rather curious, because I met Mrs. Faston this morning, and she gave me to understand that father was bringing Prince Cyril. Her husband has invited all the rich and impossible people he knows. He wants to—"

"Cut a shine?" suggested Jim, when she paused. "Poor dear! And you have to go?"

"And you," she said quietly.

"I? Heavens, no! I'm not invited. Besides, I don't want to meet—" He stopped suddenly.

"My father? But you must! I have a horrible feeling that something is going to happen, and I want you there. I asked Mrs. Faston if you might come. I—I told her you were a friend of the prince's!" Jim's jaw dropped. "It doesn't matter— he won't be there," she went on quickly. "Oh, Jim, you must come! I know there is trouble coming. Father is desperate. All sorts of people have been calling at the house for money."

* * * * *

That night, when Vyvan was dressing for dinner, his lordship went out into the dark courtyard behind his house, opened a door that led into a mews, and ushered his visitor into his little study.

"I had a job getting away from the club to-night," grumbled Philip. "If your lordship had only written a word or two—"

"Don't be a fool!" snapped Lord Felboro. "Do you think I wanted my name associated with your actions?"

Philip grinned.

"I see—you were scared in case I got caught, eh? Now look here, my lord, I'm not going to do this job until you make me safe!"

Felboro's brows met.

"What do you mean?" he asked with deadly quiet. "There will be no risk. I have given you the key of the gate which will admit you into the little garden. The dining-room is on the ground floor; the french windows you can easily force, and the car will be waiting—you can drive a car?"

Philip nodded.

"That will be waiting at the corner of the street."

"What about the 'busies'?" asked Philip.

"The detectives? They will be at the front of the house. Faston never has them inside. You ought to make your getaway easily."

"But suppose I don't?" said the other doggedly. "You spouted a lot this morning about nobody taking my word and everybody taking yours. That's not good enough for me, my lord. I want it down in black and white that you and me are in this job on equal shares."

Lord Felboro stared at him, and then a smile dawned on his face.

"All right," he said with a shrug, and, sitting down at his desk, he pulled a sheet of paper from the rack and wrote, under the suspicious eyes of the footman:

It is agreed that Philip, Lord Felboro and Sir Charles Tasker are equally concerned in the hold-up at Mr. Rex Faston's house, and that the proceeds shall be equally divided.
* * * * *

He signed it with a flourish, "Felboro," dried the paper before the fire, folded it neatly and put it into an envelope, closing down the flap.

"Will you listen at the door? I thought I heard my daughter's voice," he asked and as Philip walked to the door, Felboro slipped a folded sheet of blank paper into the second envelope he had taken from the rack and, moistening the flap with his forefinger, sealed it The thing was done so quickly that Philip was hardly at the door before the first envelope had passed to the inside pocket of Felboro's dress coat, and the blank substitute lay invitingly on the blotting-pad.

"I hear nobody," said Philip.

He took up the letter, turning it over in his hand.

"I will put a seal on the back," said Lord Felboro, "and I trust to you to return it with the seal unbroken as soon as the job is over and the loot divided."

The man seemed satisfied, and, with the envelope in his pocket, followed his lordship to the back of the house.

Mr. Rex Faston's house in Park Lane was one of the largest and stateliest in that distinguished thoroughfare. It had on one side a tiny garden large enough for a lime-tree to grow unhindered by bricks and mortar. Mr. Faston seldom showed his visitors the garden, confining himself to escorting them from one magnificent room to another, impressing them with the cost of the marble staircase, the wonderful expensiveness of the rare wood paneling, and the amazing value of the picture gallery which he had acquired with the house.

He was a short, red-faced man, somewhat rotund, and his English was not of the best. He was explaining to other stout and red-faced men and their buxom consorts his disappointment at the prince's non-arrival, when Lord Felboro and his daughter arrived. But for Felboro's title and the position he was supposed to hold, Mr. Faston's tone would have been a little more vicious and his manner colder, for even the presence of an earl, supported by the vague distinction of a King's Messenger and Sir Charles Tasker, did not wholly compensate for the missing guest.

"I say, Felboro, old boy," he greeted his guest, "that was 'orrible news you telephoned to me, 'is royal 'ighness not being able to come, and all my friends 'ere was expectin' 'im. Are you sure he'll come later?"

"He's pretty certain to drop in," said Felboro glibly. He hesitated. "There was a dinner-party at the palace, and he couldn't get away."

He glanced round approvingly at the company, met Jim Selby's stern glance with a smile and a nod as though they were the best friends in the world, and continued his examination of the ladies' adornments. There was not one of these women who did not carry sufficient jewels on her person to keep the most extravagant-minded of men in luxury for a year. Here was a haul the like of which no hold-up man had seen.

Soothing his host's disappointment as well as he could, he remarked casually upon the danger in which the guests stood.

"Burglars? Not on your life!" said Faston scornfully. "There's a couple of detectives knocking about, but I don't allow them in the 'ouse—they look common, Felboro, and commonness I can't stand."

Jim had made his way to Vyvan, and drew her into a quiet corner of the ornate drawing-room.

"Do you still think something is going to happen to-night?" he asked.

She nodded.

"I feel sure. Father's been so nervy all day, and he locked himself up in his study to-night before we came out, and that is always a bad sign. Have you a revolver?"

He lifted his eyebrows, and laughed.

"I'm so sorry," he apologized. "My dear, of course I haven't. What can happen?" he said more gently, when he saw the look of distress in her face. "Surely you're not expecting a visit from the Earl of Nowhere?"

"If I were only expecting that I should be happy," she said, and made no further reference to her premonition.

Just after the butler announced that dinner was served, Sir Charles Tasker found time for a word with his chief.

"I'm scared as hell," he grunted under his breath. "What did you want to bring me here for?"

"I'll tell you," said the other in the same tone. "If any of the women scream, get to the door. There's a little bolt just underneath the lock. You won't see it unless you look for it. Shoot the bolt—you needn't let anybody see you doing it."

Tasker went red and white.

"What—what!" he spluttered, but Felboro had already turned away from him.

Nothing unusual happened during the dinner. The sweets were served, coffee and cigarettes had ended an over-elaborate meal, and the footmen had retired, when Jim, looking up suddenly, saw Lord Felboro take his watch from his pocket, glance at and replace it almost instantly. From Felboro his eyes ranged the table till they rested on Tasker. The man was livid, the hand that raised a wine glass to his lips trembled violently. Jim was all alert. What was to happen, and when? He was not left long in doubt.

Crash!

The french windows behind him were jerked violently apart, and open-mouthed, silent, the glittering company watched the black-masked figure that appeared. In one black-gloved hand he carried an automatic pistol, the other was raised to enjoin silence.

"No shouts, no squeaks, no squeals," he chuckled. "Meet the Earl of Nowhere, everybody! Come here, you!"

His finger crooked to the white-faced Felboro.

"Come, robber chief, ravisher of broad lands, destroyer of inheritances!"

Compelled by the magnetic quality of the voice, Felboro rose slowly and walked towards the mask. And then suddenly the hand of the "Earl of Nowhere" shot out. Before Felboro could realize what had happened, the hand was in his pocket; and when it was withdrawn, it held a square envelope.

"No jewels, no ropes of greasy pearls, my fat-faced profiteer!" chortled the man in the mask, and in a moment was gone.

* * * * *

Philip—Philip! It was impossible, impossible! Felboro, burning with rage, leant out of the door of the taxicab that was carrying him to Grosvenor Gardens, and cursed the driver for his slowness.

The burglar-footman would not turn traitor—it was impossible! He threw a coin to the driver and flew into the house. Philip had arranged to meet him in his study immediately after the robbery, and the entrance from the mews had been left open for the purpose. Unlocking the door, he threw it wide and switched on the light. As he did so, he uttered an exclamation of amazement, a hoarse cry. For, lying on the floor, his wrists handcuffed, his arms and legs strapped and a heavy cloth tied over his mouth, lay Philip.

In a second Felboro had loosened the bonds and torn away the gag, and the face of the footman stared up at him.

"Just as I was going into the garden in Park Lane somebody caught hold of me and shoved a wet towel on my face, and I don't remember much more."

He put his manacled hand into his pocket vaguely and took out the "letter" which Felboro had given him. The seal was still intact. Felboro snatched it from his hand and ripped it open. Perhaps by some miraculous mistake this was the damning document he had signed, and the blank had been taken by the masked intruder. With trembling fingers he took out the paper. At first he thought it was blank, and then he saw, written on one corner, in violet ink:

I am adding your confession to my dossier.
There followed a roughly-drawn earl's coronet and a capital "N."</story>