<story title="THE CLOUD FISHERS" date="1918">
“ARE you going through Bézierville, Tam?”

“Aye an’ no,” replied Tam cautiously.

“What in thunder do you mean?” asked Major Blackie irritably. “Either you’re going or not going!”

“Well, sir,” said Tam. “A’m goin’ to Bézierville to buy a few cheap seegairs, ’tis Mr. Baxter’s bairthday to-morrow an’ A thocht A’d gi’e him a surprise, the puir body. A’m no’ goin’ through Bézierville—but intae Bézierville.”

Blackie laughed and picked up a heavy leather case from his desk.

“You’re a long-winded beggar,” he said. “Drop these at Advance Survey—they’re photographic plates which young Oathwaite exposed on his last reconnaissance. Get a receipt from the photographic gentleman—be careful as to this; photographs have been going astray lately and G.H.Q. has been kicking up the devil of a shine.”

Tam took the leathern wallet, received the printed receipt-form and passed out to the motor-cycle and side-car. He tucked the plates carefully away in the bottom of the little carriage and pushed off.

Bézierville (this is not the real name of the town) lies twenty-three miles due southwest of the Umpty-fourth’s aerodrome, and as the Advance Survey Office lies half a mile west of the town, the journey certainly involved a change in Tam’s original plan, since it was necessary to pass through the narrow streets of the town and emerge through the mossy bastions of what had once been Bézierville’s western gate. He entered the gaunt dwelling-house where the Survey had its headquarters and found the slim, spectacled chief of the development department.

“Umpty-fourth Squadron—Wytschaete Sector—h’m,” said the young man, reading the label. “Why are they photographing that part of the line?”

Tam liked or disliked people very quickly. He instantly decided that he disliked this young man very much indeed.

“It’s no’ for me to tell ye,” he said; “but mebbe it’s grawin’ auld; or grawin’ whiskers; or mebbe the Commander-in-Chief wants to frame it an’ hang it o’er his bed.”

The young man looked at him sharply. He was a civilian and apparently recognized no urgent reason why he should be polite to a junior lieutenant.

“You’re a humorist.” he said. “Yes?”

Tam shook his head. “Not so ye’d notice it,” he said, and added as an afterthought, “Mister Lavinski.”

The young man went red. “Look here,” he said loudly, “you mustn’t get fresh with me because you’re an officer, you know. My name isn’t Lavinski—see? I’m not here to be insulted, and I shall report you to the G. O. C.”

“Oh, aye,” said Tam with approval, “mention ma name to him—’tis one he’ll remember.”

“I’ve no wish to hold any further conversation with you,” said the photographer loftily and turned away.

“Here! Come back, ma impetuous laddie, an’ gi’e me ye’r autograph on this bit receipt. It will sairve as a souveneer,” he said as the other hastily scrawled his signature.

Tam blotted and folded the receipt and moved leisurely from the office. He was mounting his bicycle when the young man appeared at the doorway and, after a few seconds hesitation, came down to the scout.

“Excuse me if I got a bit heated up,” he said; “it’s very worrying work. My name’s Yeldstein—Dutch, but lived all my life in dear old Blighty. Grand country, England.”

“So A’ve heard.” said Tam gravely; “’tis the wild land sooth of Glasgae, A’m told, but I have never explored it.”

“Oh, you are Scotch.”

“Scots,” corrected Tam.

“A grand country, Scotland,” said Mr. Yeldstein. “Maybe you know my two cousins. They’ve got a store in Perth—MacPherson Brothers. Ike’s a good chap, so’s Abe.”

“A never mix with the hieland nobility,” said Tam.

“Look here, Mr. What’s-yer-name,” Mr. Yeldstein went on. “I hope we are not going to be bad friends.”

“It’s no use hopin’,” said Tam solemnly.

“Any time you’re around this way, look me up. I’ve got quarters here,” he pointed to a large barn-like building behind the house, “you will always find a drop of the real wine of Scotland—you know what I mean.”

“Aye,” said Tam, wilfully dense, “ginger ale.”

He would have made a dignified retirement, but his front tire just at that moment decided to go “phut!” and Mr. Yeldstein became the soul of hospitality, summoning slaves from dark rooms and workshops to repair the damage, and carrying the unwilling Tam to his quarters.

The place had originally been a storehouse, but its new owner’s native genius had transformed it into a very comfortable living-room. The dark young man produced whisky and large and opulent-looking cigars with imposing gold bands.

“Just make yourself comfortable,” he said, “while I run over to the office and tell my people where I am. We are getting photographs every hour of the day and night.” He called back from the doorway, “You will find the soda in that second cupboard.”

Tam was not very keen on drinking, but he had his ideas as to what was and what was not polite. There were two doors, but the first did not reveal either a cupboard or a wine-store. It was, in fact, the entrance to a small room innocent of anything more refreshing than might be contained in six large steel cylinders.

Tam was peering into the interior in his quest for soda siphons when Mr. Yeldstein returned.

“No, not there!” said the photographer hastily; “the next!”

He shut the door hurriedly, slipped a key from his pocket and locked it, and Tam noticed that his face was very red.

“Some photographic stuff. I thought the da—I thought the bally room was locked.”

Tam found the soda, refreshed himself and took farewell of his voluble host, who, from the moment of his return to the room to the moment he shook hands with unnecessary heartiness, did not stop speaking.

Tam mentioned the matter casually to Blackie the next day.

“He is a pretty useful photographer, I believe, and was in a good way of business in the north of England when he was called up,” said Blackie.

“A’m no’ so sure that A like him,” said Tam; “ye were tellin’ me, Major Blackie, sir, that photographs of the lines have been going astray.”

Blackie nodded.

“We have found several very confidential maps in the German lines when we raided them,” said Blackie; “there has been an awful row about it, but obviously they must have come through some neutral country.”

“It’s verra likely,” said Tam; “then again it’s verra unlikely.”

Blackie groaned. “I can see you joining the Intelligence Department,” he said.

A week later Tam took a flight to escort a dozen bombing machines on a night raid.

It was one of those commonplace affairs which ordinarily receive a line such as, “bombs were dropped on enemy dumps.” in the official communiqué, and the escort had a simple and uneventful time, turning in the direction of their headquarters soon after midnight. In order to facilitate their return, the raiders followed the course of a little river which carried them west and south of their homes, turning north again when the lights of Bézierville showed on their right. This brought the raiders immediately over Bézierville, to which they had signaled their innocent character in order that the civilians of that town should endure no agony of mind.

Tam, leading the squadron, had crossed the dull silver thread which marked the river south of the town, when something big and soft struck the nose of his machine, was jerked violently backward by the tractor, and hit the little pilot full in the face.

He flung out his hand and pushed the thing away and it disappeared, leaving on his knees a thin cotton bag some ten inches square and torn at the neck, as he subsequently discovered.

The occurrence was alarming, though from first to last it had occupied less than a second of time. Tam turned in his seat and flashed from his Lucas lamp an anxious inquiry to the following squadron. Sixteen lamps winked O. K. and Tam went on, mystified.

Blackie chuckled when Tam recounted the mysterious appearance.

“You were quite unconsciously sailing under an enemy squadron,” he said. “They were reported in the region of Bézierville at ten o’clock. Probably one of the pilots dropped something overboard. You ought to be thankful it wasn’t anything worse.”

“Oh,” said Tom, relieved, “is that a’? They bombed Bézierville A’ve nae doot.”

“No,” said Blackie. “They did not drop anything on that little dorp, so far as I can find out. As a matter of fact, they are rather keen on Bézierville, though what they expect to find there, Heaven knows. There is always a Hun scout or two in that region, but they usually choose daybreak for their reconnaissance.”

Tam scratched his chin. “That’s verra strange,” he said.

This was in the early hours of Tuesday morning. An hour before dawn on the Wednesday, Tam left the aerodrome, flying his tiny Hepworth Kitten and headed straight for Bézierville. He awaited the dawn and beyond the dawn and saw nothing. The next morning he repeated his visit, this time flying at an incredible height, and had the satisfaction of watching three very fast German machines come swiftly from the east, circle widely about Bézierville in the very first light of dawn and return to their bases. He did not attack them then nor the following morning when, through his glasses, he witnessed something which left him gasping.

“They waire machines of the Intelligence Squad.” he reported, “and Major Blackie, sir, the Gairmans have a grand stoont.”

What that stunt was he described in detail, and it was Blackie’s turn to gasp. Tam made a personal report to the corps commander, and that gray veteran listened in absorbed silence.

“It seems incredible,” he said, “and yet it can be only that. We know maps are getting across to the other side, but as to how they manage it, the Intelligence are in the dark. Take all the men you want from any of the squadrons, Major Blackie,” he said, turning to the squadron commander, “and see what you can do in the morning.”

The next scene of the drama was set on a bleak road where an anti- aircraft waited patiently for the dawn.

The battery commander scanned the heavens through his glasses—carefully covering that gray patch of sky which represented his “area of protection.” His signaler lay face downward by the side of the dusty road, a telephone receiver clamped to his ears, and carried on a sotto voce conversation with a young gentleman similarly employed at a distant observation post.

Now and again he raised his official voice to convey military secrets:

“Passin’ Q. B. 73 T. sir—headin’ for Q. Y. 99 B., sir.”

The battery threw a glance left and right to the big trolleys where the A. A. guns pointed their slim noses upward; to the expectant gun-crews, their faces turned to the officer at the range-finder, then returned to the inspection of the clouded blue.

Suddenly: “Swat that fly!” A monotonous voice drawled range and deflection.

“Bang! Bang! Bang!”

The Archies flashed and roared. Black smudges of smoke and white puff-balls appeared against the clouds, and through it all sailed one serene bird, dazzling white and almost ethereal in the dawn light.

The intruder into these forbidden realms neither swerved to the right nor to the left. The impression left on the mind of the observer was that the pilot was unconscious of the discourteous greeting. Shells burst beneath, above, before, behind, but this swift dragon-fly hummed on its course and presently was out of range of this anti-aircraft battery on the road and was receiving the attention of another Archie group three miles to the westward.

The battery commander ordered “Cease Fire,” and walked across to his second in command.

“Fritz is in a hurry—reconnaissance?”

His captain was drinking from the cup of a vacuum flask and shook his head.

“Solitary Fritzes hardly go on reconnaissance work,” he said; “he’s carrying a message to one of our aerodromes and—”

“Passin’ due north Lorette headin’ for Q Y. 99 B., sir,” yelled the signaler.

“Stand by!”

Again the white-winged dragon-fly came streaking through the air—eastward this time. Again the Archies banged and crashed and the trollies jerked and swayed to and fro with every explosion, as a tiny boat oscillates in the wash of a passing steamer.

“Cease fire!” The battery commander walked over to his second, filling his pipe. “That fellow was nearer fifteen thousand than ten thousand,” he growled.

“Twelve thousand and four hundred, sir,” replied the other; “he didn’t stay long—that’s one of ours following.” He pointed eastward.

Another plane was in the skies—the snarl of her engines came to them above the ceaseless pulsation of the distant guns. It was climbing as it progressed, climbing perceptibly.

“That fellow’s moving some—a fast scouting-machine.” said the battery commander.

The machine banked over suddenly and began to climb in big spirals. Higher and higher it climbed till it reached that altitude where even the rising sun failed to find reflection on its wings and it became a black speck. The artillerymen watched the climb for ten minutes before a new diversion came. It was afforded by the appearance in the east of a big formation which went slowly across the sky at an altitude of twelve thousand feet.

“Twenty-five—twenty-six—twenty-seven—say thirty,” counted the gunner officer.

“Thirty-two,” suggested his companion, “or thirty-three, counting the watcher up aloft—I wonder what the devil he’s doing up there?”

“Passin’ Q. B. 73 T., sir—headin’ for Q. Y. 99 B., sir,” rasped the weary signaler on the ground.

It was the white German returning; the gunners recognized her. She was following a course identical with that which she had pursued less than half an hour before. Again she winged her contemptuous way through the shrapnel which a western battery was flinging at her.

“’Old fire against ’ostile aircraft approachin’ Q. Y.99 B., sir,” sang the signaler.

“Here comes the watcher!” said the battery commander as the speck in the sky grew larger and larger.

“Ticka licka tickal”

The chatter of the machine-gun came to the men on the road—then something in the long white “body” of the enemy burst into flame and the machine dropped sideways and tail down to the earth, the “watcher” swooping down in his tracks.

“He ought to fall somewhere about here,” speculated the battery commander. “What a devil of a time it takes to get ’em down—here she comes!”

Come “she” did, with a thud and jangle on the very center of the white road a hundred yards away.

The gunners started at a run for the blazing wreckage, the battery commander himself leading the way and dashing through the evil-smelling smoke to the very heart of the blaze; his scorched hands wrenched away the strap which fastened the pilot to his seat and lifted him out.

He was unconscious and bleeding from the neck, but there was no appearance of any fatal wound. The big gunner carried the insensible man a dozen yards and laid him on the side of the road. His face was black with smoke, his fair hair was singed and amber brown.

“A good-looking fellow for a Fritz,” said the battery commander, scientifically bandaging the neck wound, which was apparently superficial. “Open his tunic, Grey. Ah! Nothing wrong there. I suppose the poor devil got it when he crashed.”

He filled a cup with hot coffee from his vacuum flask and forced open the airman’s teeth.

“Drink hearty, Fritzie,” he said.

The eyelids of the prostrate man fluttered, he gasped and choked and muttered something in German. His destroyer had landed in a near-by field and the pilot had descended and was walking rapidly toward the group, shedding his gloves as he came.

First he made his way to the blazing machine, hopping in and out of the spluttering fire till at last he emerged with a long bamboo pole to the end of which was fastened a thin, steel grapnel-hook. He laid this down by the side of the road carefully and walked toward the circle of men about the fallen airman.

“Your bird, I think,” said the battery commander.

“Aye,” said the pilot.

He stooped down, unfastened the remaining buttons of the German’s tunic and felt gingerly into first one and then the other of the inside pockets. From the latter he took a flat case of limp leather and opened it, disclosing a map which was protected by a mica covering. He nodded and grinned and carefully transferred the case to his own pocket.

Now, it was not unusual for a pilot to carry a map. Ordinarily that map is so disposed in his machine that there is no difficulty about its consultation. It is on the other hand, very unusual for a map to be carried in a pocket which is wholly unget-at-able, and it was more unusual still that a German airman prisoner, awakening to consciousness, should signify that his first thought was of a map which obviously he could not be employing for the purpose of his flight.

The young man, still dazed, his eyes half closed, stirred uneasily and spoke again in the same muttering tone. Then his hands felt for his inside pocket. For a moment he explored and then with a curse he sat bolt upright, staring from face to face. It took him some little time to grasp his unfortunate position and to realize that he was not among friends.

“How did you know?” he asked in English, and he addressed the little Scottish aviator who was standing over him regarding him with a look in which solicitude and amusement were blended.

“A’ve second sight,” said the other solemnly; “’tis a failure o’ mine.”

The man on the ground groaned and closed his eyes and presently he spoke again.

“I think I can get up now.”

“You had better remain where you are.” said the battery commander, and Tam nodded.

“We’re gettin’ our electroplated limousine for ye,” he said with a note of sarcasm in his tone; “’tis not often we meet the like o’ ye.”

All this was very mysterious to the battery commander, but he was too old a soldier to ask questions.

Presently the “electroplated limousine” came up in a cloud of dust, and proved to be a very grimy staff car into which the shaken young man was assisted.

Tam picked up the bamboo pole and strapped it to his nacelle, started up his engine and, flying at a thousand feet, overtook and passed his prisoner and was waiting for him in the aerodrome when the car pulled up before Squadron Headquarters.


THE formality of checking the name and division of the prisoner, of asking him the conventional questions which he as conventionally refused to answer, was got through and Tam and his commander were alone in the office.

“Now let us have a look at that map,” said Blackie.

Tam took the case from his pocket and opened it on the table. It was a very ordinary photographic map, what is termed a mosaic, that is to say it was made up of a number of squares which had been accurately photographed by airmen and pieced together, and, unlike most mosaics, it was small, the squares being little more than an inch either way.

“How did you get him?” asked Blackie, looking up.

Tam coughed. “It’s no’ for me,” he said modestly, “to speak in praise o’ ma own foresight an’ acumen.”

“Well don’t,” said Blackie.

“On the ither hand,” Tam continued, “’twould be doing a grave injustice to the Umpty-fourth if I were to mask ma light. At 5:26 on the mornin’ of the 4th instant A received a communication from ma respected commander to the effect that hostile aircraft of seenister design, to wit the Gairman Intelligence Department, had been behavin’ strangely and even insultingly—”

“Now, Tam, cut all that,” said Blackie; “I sent you out to observe while the squadron was assembling.”

“And A obsairved,” said Tam; “A obsairved the hostile enemy goin’ due east. A further obsairved the squadron goin’ northeast, so I just hung aroond, ma instinct tellin’ me that this wee feller would return. A knew he would return, for he hadna caught anything, for awa’ up A could see a wee balloon that was driftin’ slowly southward.”

Blackie nodded.

“Presently ma fine lad came back. He had missed it the first time and he had missed it the second time, but the third time he spotted it and off he went. A had a good peek at him through ma glasses and A saw him push out his grand little fishin’-rod, hook the cord of the balloon and hike it into the nacelle. It didna take so long to get the map and break the gas-bag. Mon, it was a grand stoont!”

Tam shook his head in admiration.

That morning the Assistant Provost Marshal of Bézierville arrested the amiable Mr. Yeldstein and impounded him and his gas-cylinders, his little balloons of gold-beater’s skin and a great deal of correspondence which interested the Intelligence Department long after Mr. Yeldstein had filled the grave which willing hands had dug for him.</story>