<story title="THE KING'S MESSENGER" date="1925">
EVERY city has its own peculiar voice. Neither the harsh roar of London, the nerve destroying staccato of sound which belongs exclusively to New York, nor the kettledrum buzz of Madrid is comparable with the voice of Paris, which is mainly vocal.

"Queer thing about Paris, sir," said Jim Selby, "somebody is always talking."

The staid Vice-Councillor of the British Embassy lifted his head, and, being literally-minded, listened.

"I hear nobody—except you," he said.

In that quiet room very little sound came through the double windows, nor, situated as it was, and at that hour, was it likely that any sound could penetrate to the sedate bureau.

Jim Selby chuckled to himself, having a sense of humour that was superior to the overwhelming majesty of embassies. A lean, brown faced man, on the optimistic side of thirty, he found life an amusing business and the office of King's Messenger less humdrum than he had been led to expect.

The hands of the French clock above the fireplace pointed to nine. Outside, an ungentle flurry of sleet and snow was falling, and Jim had an engagement to meet Lady Vyvan Sanclair at ten.

The Vice Councillor, who had resumed his writing, suddenly looked up.

"What are they saying in London about the Earl of Nowhere?" he asked. Jim smiled.

"He's a weird bird, isn't he? You mean the Earl of Saltesh, who makes himself so unpleasant to people?"

The Councillor nodded.

"Is it a hoax, or a joke in bad taste?" he asked. "I thought the title had died out."

"Perhaps that is the reason our mysterious friend uses it," said Jim dryly. "I can't say that I approve of people who set themselves above the law, and administer justice in their own peculiar fashion; but whoever he is, mad or sane, lord or commoner, he is doing remarkable work."

The Embassy chief growled something under his breath.

"It is drastic," admitted Jim, "and a little risky for his invisible lordship. For a man who shoots up gaming clubs and beats up blackmailers, and is dealing with a hundred-and-one little gangs that abound in London, can't he a bad fellow at heart, even though he may not be Lord Saltesh."

The Vice-Councillor leant back in his chair and looked strangely at the messenger. Then, to Jim's surprise, he said:

"I'm sending you to London to-morrow afternoon, and I'd give a lot of money if I were perfectly certain Lord Saltesh was on the train with you!"

"Why on earth—" began Jim, in amazement.

"I'll tell you one of these days. Of course, there is no Lord Saltesh. The old earl was never married; and Lord Felboro, who administered the estate for his cousin years before Saltesh went out, told me there wasn't enough money left to pay one year's interest on the mortgages. All the same, I wish I could lay my hands upon the gentleman."

"Felboro, who administered the estate for his cousin years before Saltesh

"But why?" asked Jim again.

The Vice-Councillor unlocked a drawer, pulled it open and took out an envelope, from which he extracted a sheet of paper.

"Look at this," he said.

Jim took up the sheet and read:


On Wednesday morning the draft of the Treaty between the Transcaucasian and the British Governments will arrive in Paris from Tiflis. This information has reached certain interested people in London too late for them to intercept your messenger from Transcaucasia. If you wish the Treaty to reach the Foreign Office, avoid ordinary routes; the air route is the most dangerous of all.


It was signed "Saltesh," and the paper, Jim noted, bore at the top an embossed coronet.

"Do you take any serious notice of this?"

The other nodded.

"Very serious. The Transcaucasian Treaty touches very nearly some of the biggest oil interests in the world. It is a condition of the Tiflis Government that the Treaty shall go through to London without being read even by me. The Tiflis people are not in very good odour with the Soviet Government, and they're scared of the terms being revealed until they have the support of our people. Otherwise it would have been a simple matter to have telegraphed the Treaty word for word."

"I see," said Jim thoughtfully. "And this is the 'vital document' I am to take back to town?"

"Exactly. Now I think you'd better run off and meet your lady."

Jim gasped.

"How did you know——" he began.

"That you're supping with Lady Vyvan?" The older man smiled. "My dear Captain Selby, you forget that this is Paris, and that an Embassy is naturally very curious about its servants. You have been watched ever since you came to this city. You see," he went on, before Jim could speak, "we can't afford to take risks."

"By which route do I go back to London?" asked the Messenger.

The Councillor smiled grimly.

"That very important piece of information will not be given to you until five minutes before you leave," he said.

Ciro's Restaurant was filled when Jim arrived, and he looked around the crowded room helplessly until a white-gloved hand signalled him, and then he made his way through the dancers to the little alcove table where Vyvan Sanclair was awaiting him. A slim girl in the early twenties, with a flawless complexion and grey eyes, arresting and live, she had, in her manner and poise, something of her French mother, little save the dignity of Lord Felboro, her father.

"I thought you weren't coming."

"You said ten," apologized Jim, and she smiled.

"All the same, I thought you weren't coming. One never knows what's going to happen to a King's Messenger once he disappears in the Faubourg St. Honoré. There was even a possibility that you might have been kidnapped by the Earl of Nowhere."

He laughed.

"Does his lordship interest you, too? By the way, where did he get that name?"

"Father gave it to him," she said absently. "I should love to meet that bizarre person."

"As he operates in London," said Jim, "you're hardly likely to meet him on the boulevards."

Vyvan raised her eyes to him.

"Are you sure?" she asked quietly, and, before he could speak, went on; "I have had an uncomfortable feeling that, whenever you and I have been out together, we have been shadowed." And then, seeing the laughter in his eyes: "You knew?" she asked quickly.

"I knew to-night for the first time. The Vice-Councillor told me that they'd put a watch-dog on my track to see that I came to no mischief."

Her sigh was one of relief.

"I'm glad," she said. "You will probably be amused at my fears, but I'm the most easily scared woman in Paris. When are you returning?"

Jim hesitated. She, with her quick intuition, realized that the question was one she ought not to have asked.

"I am afraid I was indiscreet," she said. "I'll tell you that I'm going back to London to-morrow night, and if I have you for fellow-passenger I shall be very pleased."

"Why?" he asked.

She shrugged her shapely shoulders.

"I don't know," she answered vaguely.

"Are you glad to be going back?"

Her lips twitched.

"To Felboro and to father?" she asked, and there was a hint of quiet sarcasm in her voice.

He was silent. Lord Felboro had an international reputation: he was a man who lived just a little too close to the border line which separates the permissible from the unpermissible to be a desirable acquaintance. His name had unaccountably disappeared from the roll of membership of two of the best London clubs, and he, who had been persona grata with the leaders of the social world, suffered the indignity of having his application for admission to the Royal Enclosure at Ascot rejected.

"No; I'm not glad to be going back," she said. "I go because the devils drive, and most terrifying of the devils is a letter from father saying that he's had to curtail my allowance."

She checked a rising sigh, and then looking wistful:

"You haven't asked me what I would like for supper!" she said, with a faint smile. "I want something very nice and very expensive."

* * * * *

The deep, booming notes of Big Ben striking the midnight hour were reverberating in the air when Lord Felboro stepped from his glistening Rolls and crossed the threshold of the Frolic Club. A footman came forward, resplendent in blue and silver, took his lordship's hat and murmured a respectful greeting.

Felboro looked around the vestibule with its soft-hued walls, its glowing alabaster vases and banked roses, and his lip curled. Through the glass-panelled doors he could see the supper-room, the dancing floor crowded with overdressed women and insignificant men. The mechanical regular strains of the noisy orchestra came faintly, and the atmosphere of the vestibule was heavy with a medley of exotic perfumes.

"Do you know if Sir Charles is here, Philip?"

"Yes, my lord; I think I saw him go to the American bar."

Philip, the footman, six feet of masculinity from his buckled shoes to his powdered head, knew everybody. He had the low voice and the deferential manner of the perfect servant.

"Philip is the only good-looking man that ever goes to the Frolic Club," said a cynic, "and very nearly the only gentleman."

Lord Felboro pulled at his fair moustache, with a frown of doubt.

"I suppose there is the usual crowd here to-night?"

"There were a large number of members dining and a very considerable number came on from the theatre," said Philip, who had never been known to speak disparagingly of the Frolic Club and its curious membership. "Would your lordship wish me to page Sir Charles?"

Lord Felboro nodded, and Philip went noiselessly across the tessellated floor and pressed an invisible bell in the wall. A page appeared as if by magic, and, receiving his instructions, vanished down a long corridor. In a few minutes be returned with Sir Charles Tasker.

Felboro was tall and thin and bore himself with the elegance of the patrician. Sir Charles, with his inflamed face and bulbous nose, was short, grotesquely fat, and looked what he was, the self-made man and badly made at that.

"Want to see me, Felboro?" he grunted, as he came breathlessly into the vestibule.

Lord Felboro looked round, and then walked to a settee as far as possible away from Philip and the danger of eavesdropping.

"I've had a 'phone from my man in Paris," he said, lowering his voice. "Selby left Paris late last night by aeroplane for Brussels."

Tasker screwed up his face to a frown.

"Why Brussels?" he asked suspiciously. "Why not direct to London?"

Felboro smiled wearily.

"My dear good friend Tasker," he said, "you must credit these people with a little intelligence. Possibly they suspected the possibility of a cleverly manoeuvred aeroplane collision over the Channel and a waiting boat to pick up a dead pilot and his passenger. No, he's coming into England by the back-door—possibly Antwerp-Harwich or Ostend-Gravesend."

The other fingered his thick lips nervously.

"If he suspects——" he began.

"He? Who?" asked Lord Felboro sharply. Then, seeing Philip's head turn, he lowered his voice.

"Who do you think? This blamed earl, of course!" growled Tasker, and Lord Felboro laughed softly.

"What on earth should he have to do with our—business arrangements?" he asked.

Tasker did not reply for a moment.

"He's out for any kind of arrangement that is crooked," he said. "I tell you, Felboro, I'm scared. I'm not worried about the police; I don't care that"—he snapped his fingers—"for the best secret service in the world. But this man who works alone—he's a devil! Did you hear what happened to Tommy Grimbley? He took him out of his bed and flogged him in his own room, and not a person in the house heard it. And all because Tommy had got a little too fresh with some typist or other."

(Sir Charles was putting a very charitable construction upon "Tommy's" offence.)

"Philip is a good fellow," growled Felboro under his breath, "and he's a very trustworthy man, but I've not the slightest desire that he should know all our secrets."

"He's a crook, too," was the startling reply.

"Philip a crook?" whispered Felboro, and shot a glance at the unconscious footman.

"Yes; he's been in gaol—five years for robbery with assault, and five years for another crime," said Sir Charles. "I was going to tell you about it. I had a letter from some detective agency to-day, asking me if I knew of Philip's antecedents. That bird may be useful to us."

"Perhaps he will catch the Earl of Nowhere," sneered Felboro.

The other man shifted uneasily.

"You can laugh," he snarled, "but maybe you won't laugh one of these days. And I'll tell you something, Felboro—it's been on my mind for a month, ever since I heard about this man who calls himself Saltesh. You administered the old earl's estate and made a pretty good thing out of it. I know of one money-lender to whom you paid a hundred and forty thousand pounds. You didn't find Bradburys growing like raspberries! Suppose there is an Earl of Saltesh, and suppose he's coming back after you——"

"Why wouldn't he go to the Courts?"

Felboro had gone suddenly old; his face was white and drawn.

"It would be a simpler matter to go to the Courts and prove his identity."

Sir Charles's lips twisted derisively.

"What would he get out of that? A big, fat lawyer's bill! No; if my theory is correct, this fellow is after you; and I'm going to suggest that we let the treaty go. It's too dangerous."

Felboro stared at him.

"Not go after the Treaty?" he asked incredulously. "You know what it's worth to us? At the least a million. I could get a million cash this night from that new oil crowd in the City, once I give them particulars of the leases. You're mad. We're too deeply in this to back out, Tasker. We've got to go through. I only wanted to know the station he arrives at, and that I now know."

"What's your plan?" asked the other.

"You're coming home with me to-night, to Grosvenor Gardens, and you'll wait till I arrive with Selby and help me get him in."

"You're not going to——?"

The man's breath failed him.

"Kill him, I suppose you were going to say? No; it's a much simpler matter. I'm not quite a fool. Selby will never know what really happened to him, and I shall be the last person in the world he will suspect."

"Are you alone in Grosvenor Gardens?" interrupted the other.

"Vyvan's home; she came back from Paris this morning. But you need not worry about the girl; she is so used to my all-night habits that she is hardly likely to leave her room to investigate any strange sound she may hear."

"The servants?"

"Only the cook sleeps in the house, and you couldn't wake her before seven with a hammer. The maids sleep out, do not come on duty till eight."

But the fat man was not convinced.

"This is a big thing, Felboro, a bigger thing than we've ever tackled before. If anything went wrong it would mean penal servitude——"

"What will it mean if they discover that for five years you have been issuing faked balance-sheets and appropriating money from your various companies for your own use?" asked the other quietly. "We want this money badly, you and I. You're not going to back out?"

Sir Charles shook his head, though in his heart was the very fear of death...

Jim Selby had reached Brussels in the early hours of the morning, and, carrying out his instructions to the letter, left the Belgian capital by the first train for Ostend, where he stayed at one of the few hotels which were open at that season.

The Treaty, which had been written on paper of an extraordinary thinness, was secreted beneath his shirt. Nevertheless, he slept that afternoon behind a locked door, a revolver corded to his wrist. That these precautions were necessary he discovered on going for a short stroll before dinner. He had seen two loungers at a street corner, and had mentally noted their appearance. He had not gone fifty yards towards the Place des Armes when, glancing back, he saw the men behind him. Ostend in the winter is a desolation; there were very few people in the streets, and no sign of a gendarme.

The Place des Armes, however, was fairly well filled, for the market had been held that day. He glanced around and saw the two men hesitating at the corner of the Place. They had momentarily lost sight of him, and this was his opportunity. Turning the corner of another street leading into the market-place, he doubled back, and, overhauling a fiacre, ordered the driver to take him back to his hotel.

His ruse was only temporarily successful, for he had hardly been back in his room five minutes when, glancing out of the window, he saw his two shadowers standing on the opposite sidewalk.

The arrangements, however, which had been made for him in advance were very thorough. It was growing dark when a big limousine swept up to the door, and without a moment's wait Jim, who had paid his bill, stepped into the machine, deposited his valise, and in another second was gliding rapidly towards the centre of the town.

The manoeuvre evidently took the men by surprise. Glancing back through the peephole he saw one of them running across the road to a telephone booth. Probably they also had a car in readiness, he thought. But he saw no sign of them until he had passed through Wenduyne and the lights of Blankenberghe were coming up to meet him. Then it was he saw the two head lamps of the big car twinkling in the distance as they crossed the sandy dunes.

There was a delay of a few minutes at the Dutch frontier whilst he showed his papers, and by the time he was cleared he saw the lights of the car a hundred yards behind. They, however, were not prepared to cross the frontier, and had neither papers nor permis. And for the time being he had shaken off his discomfited enemies.

At midnight, when the Flushing mail packet was on the point of departure, a motor-boat came shooting across the broad waters of the Scheldt, and a very tired young man clambered up to the pier. It was four o'clock and a cold foggy morning when Jim landed at Dover, and had the satisfaction of seeing two Scotland Yard men fall in behind him at half-a-dozen paces' distance and follow him to his carriage, standing before the locked door until the train moved out. He had dozed on the ship, and was wide awake when the train came into Victoria, five minutes ahead of time.

He was looking round for a taxi when a cheerful voice hailed him, and a man in a long fur coat came across the station roadway with outstretched hand.

"Why, Lord Felboro, you're the last person in the world I expected to see at this hour," smiled Jim.

"I came down to meet that inconsiderate daughter of mine, who chose the night boat without regard to her father's need for sleep," said Felboro genially.

"Lady Vyvan? Is she on the train?"

"Doesn't look like it," said Lord Felboro, glancing down the platform. "I suppose she'll arrive by the seven o'clock train. Did you come from Paris?"

"No I didn't come direct from Paris," said Jim; "and I don't think the Paris passengers are on this train. I remember somebody telling me that the Paris boat had been held up by fog in the Channel."

"Oh, that's it!" said his lordship, apparently relieved. "Well, she'll find her way home. Where are you going?"

Jim's intention had been to go immediately to the Foreign Office and deliver his package to a waiting secretary.

"Foreign Office at this hour of the morning!" scoffed Felboro. "You've a much higher opinion of the industry of Civil Servants than I, my dear Selby! Come along to Grosvenor Place and have some breakfast. You look pretty ill."

"I?" said Jim in surprise. "Good heavens! I never felt better in my life. And I'm afraid I can't go to Grosvenor Place until I have called at Whitehall," he said.

"In that case let me drop you there," said Felboro, "and I'll wait till you have finished your business and take you home."

He showed Jim into the two-seater saloon and took his place at the steering-wheel. As the car emerged into the station yard it was raining a steady, persistent drizzle, and the streets were cloaked in a thin veil of yellow fog.

"Pleasant place to come back to—London," said his lordship. "I think a cigarette will make the drive endurable."

He stopped the car at the gates and pulled a case from his pocket. Jim accepted a cigarette gratefully, and held a match for his lordship before he lit his own.

"Pull up the window—it's a poisonous morning," said Felboro, and sent the car leisurely into Victoria Street.

They were half-way between the station and the Houses of Parliament when he asked a casual question of his companion. There was no answer, and glancing round Felboro saw that the young man's chin was on his chest; the cigarette, still smouldering, had fallen between his feet. He stooped and picked it up, threw it through the window, then, bringing the car round in a complete circle, increased the speed. Before the sombre entrance of 793, Grosvenor Gardens, he stopped, jumped out, looked left and right, then caught the unconscious man under the arms and dragged him across the pavement and up the stairs, depositing him against the door. Almost immediately it was opened by Tasker.

"My word, you've done it!" he said in horror, as he looked at the huddled figure.

"Don't talk, help me to carry him into the dining-room," said the other sharply, "before an infernal policeman comes along."

Together they half-carried, half-dragged the messenger into Felboro's small study and laid him on the sofa.

"Go out and shut the door," ordered the master of the house.

The trembling Tasker returned in time to see his companion draw a thin package from the bosom of the drugged man.

"You've got the other envelope and the seals ready?" said Felboro. "Good! Now imitate this writing as closely as you can, whilst I see what is in the package."

He slit open the end and pulled out some twenty sheets of typewritten manuscript, turning the pages rapidly, and stopping only to jot down notes as they occurred to him.

"Here is the paragraph about the leases," he said. "Now we shall see——"

"Father!"

He looked up suddenly. The door had opened noiselessly and a girl's slim figure had appeared against the dark background of the hall. She was staring at the prostrate figure of Jim Selby.

"What is it? What have you done?" And then her eyes fell upon the papers on the table. "It is the Treaty!" she gasped. "The Treaty that Jim was bringing from Paris! Oh, father!"

"Get out!" Felboro's face was almost demoniacal in its fury. "Get back to your——"

But she had already crossed the room and was kneeling by Jim's side, trying to revive him. Her father gripped her roughly by the arm and dragged her back.

"You fool, what are you trying to do? He'll never know that the package has been tampered with!" he hissed, "I'll take him to the Foreign Office and say he fainted——"

She was strangely quiescent, and moved obediently to his hand. Then, before he could realize what was happening, she had snatched the papers from the table and had thrust them into the front of her dress.

"You shan't see them, you shan't!" she said with passionate intensity. "Father, how could you!"

"Give me those papers!" cried Lord Felboro furiously.

"My dear young lady"—the quavering voice of Tasker was heard for the first time—"don't you realize that if this thing gets out, your poor father—"

"It's out, my boy; it's out!"

Felboro spun round at the voice. The door was open, but now the passage was brightly illuminated. He saw a figure, veiled and robed like a monk. Two eyes burnt through the slits of the hood which covered the Thing's face, and on his head glittered and sparkled a strange coronet the like of which he had never seen before. It was a coronet which had surmounted the helms of the knights of old, a thing of delicate gold work and flashing gems.

"Meet the Earl of Nowhere," said the cracked voice behind the mask. "John Lackland, Nemo..." He pointed a black-gloved finger at the speechless Lord of Felboro. "Give me back my lands and hereditaments, my broad manors, my woodlands, and houses great and small, thief and double thief!"

Whatever Lord Felboro lacked, it was not courage. His hand dropped to his pocket, but before he could close upon the grip of his automatic, something long and black and sinister covered his heart.

"Don't move, my robber-baron! Those papers." He took them gently from the girl's outstretched hand. "Stand against the wall."

The men obeyed as he slipped the papers back into the folder and scribbled bold, irregular characters across the face: "Stolen but unread," and added his sprawling signature. Then, with a strength which surprised the girl, he stooped and lifted the drowsy man to his feet, and before they realized what had happened, had disappeared. They heard the slam of the front door, followed by the whir of engines. When Felboro rushed out, car and man had gone.</story>