<story title="THE INFANT SAMUEL" date="1919">
“TAM,” said Billy.

Tam sat at his table, his pen poised, his eyes fixed on the calendar which hung on the wall. So he had been staring for ten minutes.

“Tam.”

Tam woke from his reverie with a start and, laying down his pen, turned to his companion.

“What is it, Billy?” he asked, and there was a note in his voice which was new to Billy Best.

“Did you know that the Infant Samuel brought down Gray and Mirdle to-day?”

“Ye don’t say—puir lads.”

Long usage to the tragedies of war flying had never dulled his sensibility. There was always the same tremor of concern in his voice whenever a good comrade passed.

“Deid,” he asked, “or missing?”

“Smashed up—fell inside our lines; they’ll both recover.”

Tam took up his pen again and sucked the end. “The wee lad is gettin’ ower bold,” he said; “it’s no’ his habit to strafe chasers.”

Billy, his hands behind his head, lay on his bed watching a spider on the ceiling. Presently: “Tam—I’ve fixed that interview with de Lisle—Buller says he’ll come. Could you pick us up on the Amiens road—we’re going out to buy some things early and could go on to de Lisle.”

“Oh, aye,” said Tam absently.

Another long pause.

“Tam—what’s biting you?”

“Eh?”

“You’ve been moping all day—are you in love?”

Tam uncrossed and crossed his legs before he replied.

“Weel,” he said cautiously, “A’ve a friend, Billy.”

Billy remembered that Tam never spoke of his wife except in these terms, and sniffed, and Tam’s hard face softened in a smile as tender as a woman’s.

“’Tis the fashion to pretend that ye’ve only to be marrit to be miserable, Billy.” he said. “A’ve kent hundreds an’ hundreds of laddies like ye. ’Tis one of the illusions of youth, like the illusion that ye can win money by playin’ the races or by pickin’ the pea from the thimble.”

He returned his gaze to the calendar and a troubled frown wrinkled his forehead.

“You bein’ American an’ ma—ma friend bein’ American,” he said, “maybe ye’ll understand what A’m tellin’ ye—it’s a michty sacred confidence A’m gi’in’ ye, Billy.”

“Go ahead, Tam—have a cigar?”

“No, Billy; this is verra serious—weel, a seegair will no’ make it worse—thank ye.” He bit off the end of the proffered weed. “Billy, ma friend has been writin’ strange letters to me. Maybe in yer abysmal ignorance o’ women yer instinct will help ye to understand where ma matured reason lets me crash.”

Billy ignored the challenge and allowed the slur on his judgment to pass. He knew Tam well enough to recognize in the half-whimsical, half-serious preamble a certain strained anxiety.

“A willna tell ye everything—but ye know ma friend married—well, ’twas what the young feller who does the society notes in the Scotsman calls a miss-alleeance— she marrit beneath her.”

He swallowed something and Billy was silent.

“A’ve been verra, verra happy wi’ ma friend, Billy,” Tam went on slowly, “an’ she writes twice a week regularly an’ they’re letters—Billy, they’re no’ mortal in their kindness.”

He stopped again, still staring at the calendar, his strong hands clasping and unclasping in his perturbation.

“I got a letter this morn,” he said in a low voice,” ’twas sweet an’ lovin’, but, mon, it was sad! It was like a letter from the dyin’, Billy—the letter of a dear body knockin’ at Peter’s Gate an’ sendin’ one wistfu’ glance back—A canna read it to ye, but ’twas a’ regrets an’ hopes—would A love her memory as A loved—”

He choked and stopped and his chin went down to his breast. Presently, with an impatient sideway jerk of his head, he went on.

“It’s the fear in the letter—Billy—that just sickens me—that makes ma verra soul curl up like a parched paper—God knows what it’s a’ aboot. Maybe she knows she’s made a mistake, the puir lassie, maybe she’s met some lad she kent awa’ back in America—”

“And maybe she’s fed up with waiting for you to go on leave, Tam,” said Billy wisely; “after all, it must be six months since you went to England—”

“Scotland,” murmured Tam, “though she’s in England now.”

“Well, go back home—you can’t expect a girl to sit down and patiently wait without grouching. Now, I understand women, Tam—”

Tam was smiling now, smiling through tears. “Awa’ wi’ ye, ye arrogant pup!” he said in quite his old tone; “but maybe ye’re right an’ A’ll ask leave in the morn. Noo help yersel’ to one of yer ain seegairs, an’ we’ll have a graund talk about the Infant Samuel.”

And of him they talked until the small hours, for the Infant Samuel was that phenomenon, the perfect air-fighter, and that he happened to be a German in no way detracted from the interest that was felt in him even on the civilized side of the battle-line.

Therefore did they speak of him until they slept, and met the next day, reinforced by a third redoubtable fighter, to speak of him again.

A solemn old gentleman of twenty-three—and twenty-three feels horribly old when it has killed its seventeenth man—sat at a round table in that most disreputable of estaminets (it was called most incomprehensibly “The Grand Choice” and stands on the Amiens-Arras road) and discussed the art and practise of wilful murder, the paucity of leave and the perfectly ripping qualities of Yorkshire terriers with our sober veteran of nineteen who had three or four slaughters, several attempted suicides and divers other acts of violence to his credit.

“The great thing is to keep away from stereoptyped methods, Billy,” said the sage of twenty-three, whose name was Buller. “That’s where so many fellows go wrong. They patent a new stunt and work it too long. Presently Fritz gets ’em taped—”

“How’s that?” said Billy.

“Gets wise to ’em,” translated Buller; “the counter-stunt appears one fine morning and the patent lapses, owner being too dead to renew. They are bound to cut you sooner or later,” went on this cheerful youth complacently, “and likely as not you’ll be brought down by a beastly Archie or shot down by a puddin’ headed Prussian private. But it’s your job to prevent yourself being outed in a legitimate way.”

“I get you,” said Billy. “Now, Tam says—”

“Oh, Tam,” said Buller with respect; “well, you see, Tam is always inventing new stunts and he never tries ’em more than three times. Tam is the only man that ever brought down a Boche machine with a hand grenade, and that wants some doing, but he never tried the hand-grenade trick twice, and Tam brought down von Bruning by falling into a tail dive and shooting up, and that was never done before. Tam has done everything and still finds new things to do. I am not talking about genius—”

“Bouquets should be left with the stage-door keeper,” said Billy, “don’t apologize. You mean well. Tam’s all right.” He looked at his wrist-watch. “Are we renting a room here?” he asked politely.

“We’ve got another five minutes,” replied Buller, consulting his own watch.

He walked to the door of the estaminet and looked down the long road and, save for an ambulance convoy moving slowly back to the base hospital, there was no one in sight. Overhead an artillery plane was moaning its mournful way to its aerodrome and at this Buller cocked a critical eye.

“The Infant missed you, anyway,” he said.

“It’s a low-down business shooting spotters,” said Billy. “Tam and me—”

“Tam and I,” corrected the veteran.

“Tam and me,” said the defiant Billy, “reckon we’ll lay for the Infant Samuel and rock him to sleep, yes, sir, and—there’s Tam.”

Tam was no more than a swift-moving cloud of dust on the long road. Presently the cloud thinned and revealed a small motor-car and Tam drew up his machine chick-a-chucking noisily.

“’Tis the best A could do,” said Tam, “an’ will ye be so kind, Mr. Buller, as to say nothin’ that will hairt the patriotic feelin’s o’ ma wee friend, Billy—”

“The fellow that made that car is turning out two submarine chasers a day,” said Billy, not without pride. “He’s going to make thousands of one-man submarines—”

“I’ve heard that, but where will he get his crews?” asked the practical Mr. Buller; “you’ll want pretty daring fellows for a job like that.”

“What’s the matter wi’ the fellers who drive his cars?” asked Tam. “Mon, it wants nairve. Get in, Mr. Buller—that bit o’ tin wi’ the handle is the door. Hauld tight—A’m goin’ to start.”

You may imagine three enthusiastic Egyptologists taking long journeys to consult a fortunate fourth who had seen with his own eyes the scarab of Amen-Ra; or the pilgrimage of three astronomers to compare notes with one who has discovered in the spectrum of Nueva Aquilæ the lines of calcium; or the journeyings of zoologists to greet the traveler who, in the deeps of the Bongindanga forest, has had the good fortune to photograph an okapi. It requires an adaptable imagination to understand the object of the journey which three members of the Flying Corps were taking.


THESE three young men were great craftsmen, great enthusiasts and great scientists. They were slayers of men, but that was only incidental to the greater business of their days. The killing of a man merely marked the completeness of their achievement. If they could have tagged an enemy airplane with red chalk, and by such marking passed the machine and its occupants automatically from service, they would have been satisfied. They were on their way now to talk with a hero of twenty and a few odd months who could tell them ever so many things about another young gentleman they wanted to kill.

The hero lived in a big aerodrome behind the French lines (to the relief of Billy, who had rashly undertaken the duties of interpreter, he spoke excellent English), and when the three musketeers found him he was eating large slices of bread and cheese and jam and washing it down with immense drafts of vin ordinaire.

He was the French ace de Lisle, and he had a transparent little mustache and about twelve medals.

“M’sieur,” said Billy valiantly, “pardon si nous dérangez—”

“Dérangons,” murmured Buller; “we’re plural.”

“And singular too,” laughed de Lisle. “Tam, Bill-ee Best and Buller, isn’t it? Welcome, my aviators! What is happening on your part of the line? Bissing’s circus was performing the last time I heard from you.”

He seated them, energetically talking all the time.

“Weel, ye see, Mr. de Lisle,” said Tam, “it’s aboot the Infant Samuel we’ve come to see ye—”

“Ah. The Bébé! Good!” smiled de Lisle. “Yes, we know him and I have seen him. A cherub, by gar! An angel! He has been on the Champagne front for a year and a terrible fellow he has been, par-bleu! I was taken prisoner a month ago and saw him—engine failed and down I went into the Boche lines. He came down after me and I saw him. At first I thought it was a little girl when I saw him jump from his machine and come across to me. I was amazed, dumfounded; it was incredible! Blue eyes, hair like spun gold—not cut short, Boche fashion, but curly; complexion like a peach and the smile of a beneficent cupid! And polite, m’sieurs! A veritable gentleman. Saxon, of course—age about seventeen and the pride of the German army. I have tried to kill him twice since then—I escaped, as you know, on the night of my capture and I am not allowed to cross the German lines any more.” He shrugged his shoulders, desolated.

“He must be a graund little feller,” said Tam. “I’d love to have a crack at him. What like’s his machine?”

“Fokker improved,” said de Lisle; “it turns very quickly and is a devil of a climber.”

“What are his stunts?” asked Billy.

“All of them,” replied de Lisle promptly. “He shoots up from below, and you want to be careful about getting on his tail—he has a trick of stalling and shooting backward. He’ll never give you the sun—that’s certain. I’ve never known a man who got between him and the sun. He shoots better to the left than to the right, and the only way you’ll ever get him is to zoom up at him on his blindest side—that’s the right, and my faith! that infant has very good sight on the blind side, too!”

For an hour the talk ran to and fro like the shuttle of a loom, leaping from Tam to de Lisle, from de Lisle to Billy, from Buller to Tam, and presently there was woven a good piece of education in the ways and wiles of the Infant Samuel.

They went back to their quarters that afternoon with important data common to all three, but with three views on the best method of employing their knowledge.

Buller, on early patrol duty, spent the greater part of the night planning his method of attack and went up confidently.

“Wish you were in this flight, Tam,” he said at parting. “I feel I’m going to meet the Infant.”

“Bring me back a lock o’ that golden hair,” said Tam gruesomely. “Billy is makin’ a collection.”

Buller’s prophecy was fulfilled. He met the Infant over Citie St. Augustine, north of Lens, and attacked him from below. The Infant turned and windmilled, wing over wing, and Buller, pulling clear of the disorder, exposed himself for the fraction of a second....

“Buller is down,” said Blackie, coming into the mess for breakfast; “fell in our lines, poor chap.”

No need to ask any further question. The “poor chap” was all the announcement that need be made.

Buller, with a puzzled smile frozen on his white face, was lying in a trench covered by an army blanket and the R. A. F. mechanics were already digging his grave.

“Pass the toast, Tam,” said Billy gruffly. Tam knew just how he felt.

Later in the morning they learned that it was a veritable Infant kill. Witnesses there were in plenty and victims also. The pilot and observer of a stricken artillery bus on the Arras road had seen the fight—and had even felt its repercussion.

“They’ve given a circus to that Infant,” telephoned the brigadier to the headquarters of the Umpty-fourth; “for the moment he’s pursuing Richthofen’s tactics.”

Richthofen’s tactics were familiar to every airman. The leader commands a dozen swift machines and the circus patrols in formation. The task of the eleven is rounding out any sky stragglers they meet to ring them round until escape is impossible. Then the leader on number twelve drops to deliver the coup de grace. It is only possible over the German lines, which means that it is always possible because it is there where the Allied airmen are to be found.

The Umpty-fourth turned out in full strength.

“Tam,” yelled Billy, as he flung himself into his quarters, “there’s going to be a real dog fight—why, what’s the matter?”

Tam was standing by the window, his face drawn and haggard.

“It’s another letter, Billy,” he said huskily; “ye can see it.”

Billy took the half sheet of note-paper.

There were only a few lines written in pencil:

God bless you, my boy, and help you to bear whatever trial He sends you. I am happy in a sad way, believing whatever is, is best. — V.


Billy handed the letter back without comment.

“A’ve asked for leave an’ A’ll be leavin’ to-morrow forenoon,” said Tam, as he folded the paper and put it in his breast pocket.

Billy had no words. His heart was aching for his comrade and he felt horribly inadequate and deficient.

They walked across the flying-ground in silence.

“So long, Tam,” said Billy as he came to his machine, and Tam gripped his hand and passed on.

The fighting scouts went up one by one and maneuvered for formation. Soon they were heading for the northeast to avenge their dead. The artillery spotters saw them sail majestically to their goal, a grim and beautiful spectacle.

They were in action between Roulers and Lille—a short savage scrap with a flight of six German battle-planes—and there was a mighty rocketing and looping. The air pulsed with the incessant splutter of machine-gun fire. Eight machines fell blazing to the earth and the squadrons reformed and continued eastward, for they had annihilated their enemies.

Tam swung his machine into position, saw Billy three hundred yards away on his right rear and waved his hand. Nothing happened until Blackie signaled “Return.”

They were nearing Lille when the reinforced Archie barrage split them. Tam led his flight to the right, following the course of the Lys. It was above the ruins of Armentières that the Infant struck. Six enemy machines drove toward the flight and Tam, observing the fan-shaped formation and the central chaser at a lower level, knew that this was the opportunity he sought.

He came down with one wing up to blind his adversary and brought his gun into action. The Infant came round on a quick turn and let go a burst at the higher machine. Tam stalled the scout and fell back vertically, with his undercarriage exposed to his enemy, who again swooped round, this time in a wider circle, in the hope of reaching a vulnerable place.

Tam thought he had his man. Down went his nose and straight he drove to the enemy’s flank. The maneuver which followed was one of lightning swiftness. The Infant stalled, but in stalling came round so that the belly of his big machine faced the onrush—then through the floor of the nacelle he fired two deadly bursts.

Tam was unhurt, but his controls were gone and he was spinning for a fall. Like a flash the Infant zoomed up to give the death blow. And at that moment came Billy Best, a roaring rocket of spurting flame. The Infant banked too late. Billy saw a hand go up in involuntary protest, and the big chaser fell.

Tam was half-way to earth by now, but working feverishly to right his elevator. He was still working when his Spad pancaked and crashed on all fours, flinging him into a plowed field.

“Hurt?” Billy was down and supporting him. “Gee, Tam, I thought you’d borrowed your last cigar!”

Tam relieved his face of a coating of Flanders and shook his head. “Did ye get him?” he asked shakily.

Billy pointed. The wreckage of an airplane lay in the next field—and as they made their way across the plow, half a dozen soldiers were lifting from the débris its tiny pilot.

Pathetically small he looked, a mere wisp of a boy with matted golden hair that cascaded over his forehead.

He opened his eyes and smiled up at the two.

“Hard luck—yes,” he whispered in English, “Can I drink?”

Billy knelt by his side and lifted his shoulders from the ground and put the nozle of a water-bottle to his lips.

“What time is it?” he asked.



It was ten minutes past one and they told him.

“Will you please tell me who you are—oh, yes—Tam and Best, that is the American who used to ram machines; you will carry a message over the lines to the Roulers aerodrome, please. Also will you write a message for my—mother—You are very kind—”

He closed his eyes drowsily.

The blood patch was spreading across his gray tunic and Tam knew the end was near.

“Tell her I was very happy—yes? I am young—but I have lived.”

His smile was the smile of a child; the powder-grimed hand that lay on his breast was as delicate as a woman’s.

“Bismarckstrasse 97,” he murmured and then, as though in his delirium he recalled the nickname the English had given him, “Speak, Lord, for Thy servant heareth.”

And so saying he died.

They saw the body put on an ambulance before the car came to carry them home and neither spoke until the aerodrome was in sight.

“Billy,” said Tam solemnly, “yon was a verra guid boy.”

“You bet,” said Billy, chewing vigorously and looking straight ahead.

“It’s an awfu’ waste, this war,” said Tam.

Billy turned and looked at him.

“I tell you how I figure it out, Tam,” he said a little incoherently, “something better is going to grow in the place of all the good things the war has burnt. It’s a weeding-out, Tam—that’s how I figure it. I guess that for every soul that goes out to God there’s another soul blooming—this sounds slush and I wouldn’t say it to anybody but you. These fellows who die don’t really die—they just fade aside and make way for the men and women who will come along the path they died to open up. Do you see, Tam—that’s how I figure it.”

Tam gripped the boy’s arm in his and squeezed it tight.

The car drove straight to the headquarter office and Blackie bounded out to meet them.

“Thank God you’re back!” he said.

Now it was not usual for Blackie to express his thanks publicly for his blessings, and Tam looked at him with interest.

“Here,” said Blackie and handed the scout a field-telegraph form.

It was addressed to Tam and read:

WE HAVE A DARLING BOY, TAM—I AM SPLENDIDLY WELL. WHAT SHALL WE CALL HIM? VERA.


Tam turned his head and looked back down the long white road. An ambulance was coming briskly toward the hospital which lay beyond the aerodrome and he recognized it.

“We will call him Samuel,” he said, and then the old bubbling spirit which was peculiarly his, broke through, “after Uncle Sam,” he added.</story>