<story title="THE DÉBUT OF WILLIAM BEST" date="1919">
THERE is a loneliness more poignant than that “loneliness of wings” of which Leonardo wrote; there is the loneliness of anonymity. To be one of twenty thousand men or more, roughly classified heroic by an admiring but misunderstanding public, is to endure the same crushing sense of obliteration which comes to all men in a crowd.

Billy Best realized fully enough that he was a member of a great and wonderful brotherhood. It was a brotherhood which included in its membership even those men who daily sought his destruction in the air and whom he variously described, according to his mood, as Fritz, Heinie, Boche, Hun, Jerry, or “them.”

For Billy had adopted the nomenclature of both armies, French and British. There had been a time when he had thought that it was low down that terms of contempt should be employed against German fighting men who were undoubtedly brave, who were certainly patriotic and who, whatever might be the justice of their cause, were entitled to respect.

But he had learned in the great school of war that such phrases were not contemptuous, but were rather labels applied by high-spirited young men to a foe whose valor they respected but of whose inferiority to themselves they were perfectly convinced.

Billy lived among men whose names, if they did not reach the newspaper-press—for the British government was a little too conservative on the publicity side of the war—were familiarly spoken of in every mess-room he visited. He learned of the little feuds between particular French and British squadrons and particular German squadrons. He knew why von Heuben went regularly to a certain aerodrome behind Rheims looking for Villiers, the French ace, and why Villiers avoided meeting the man who was his half-brother.

He knew why the Captain Baron von Kohn was killed by Seveni, the Italian airman in circumstances so remarkable that one hesitates to record them, since the two men had fought a duel behind a German aerodrome under the eyes of a princely army commander. And von Kohn’s offense had been so great in the eyes of honorable men that Seveni, after killing his man, was allowed to go back to his machine which stood in the center of the German ground and retire unmolested.

He knew of “Eighteen” Spanton, so called because on his eighteenth birthday, which was the eighteenth of the month, he shot down his eighteenth enemy plane and died that night in number eighteen general hospital. He knew of the men in the German service that both the French and British knew, of Boelke, Immelmann, and the two Richthofens and their kind, and he knew also that in the German messes there were French and British fighters who were discussed at every table.

Had not Tam been challenged by three or four of the most famous of fighters? Had not Blackie been signaled out by Bissing’s circus in the old days?

All these men knew one another though they had never met. Their methods, their character, their systems of fighting were discussed and criticized in very much the same way as the form of a race-horse or of a team player is discussed by the votaries of sport. And he was of the crowd, one of the unmentioned, and it depressed him, not because he was a lover of the spot- light, not because he was looking forward to seeing his name figure in the world’s press, but rather from a mistaken sense of his unworthiness.

He was piqued with the feeling that he did not count. With youth happily such moments of depression are of brief duration, but while they last there is no denying that they are fairly intensive.

“Ye ought to be ashamed of yersel’,” said Tam severely. “A’m surprised at ye, Billy.”

“Oh, shut up,” said Billy, a sad figure in shirt-sleeves sitting in the one chair of which Tam’s modest apartment boasted, his elbows on his knees, his face in his hands. “I just feel out of it; I’ll never make a scout.”

“Will ye be quiet,” said Tam; “have ye no candy to put in yeer face, and after me teachin’ ye the art and science of scootin’? Have ye no sense of decency or will ye be an American to the end of yeer days?”

“I guess there’s nothing wrong with America,” said Billy, reviving sufficiently to defend his native land against the aspersions of a foreigner. “It’s me that’s wrong.”

“What would ye like?” demanded Tam, sitting on the edge of the table and eying the other with disfavor. “Would ye like me to put a wee bit in the Glasgow Herald, or maybe ye’d like to see yeer portrait in the police news?”

“Forget all that,” said Billy rudely; “you know that doesn’t cut any ice with me. I’m just no good. Do you know what happened to-day?”

“A’m waitin’ to learn.” said Tam; “all this afternoon A’ve been sitting by patiently and, if A may use the word, modestly, waitin’ for yeer confession. Ye’ve done something, Billy. A can see it in yeer fairtive glances. Yeer color comes and goes. Yeer hands shake like a brigade movie. Yeer breath is labored. Ye wear a hunted and a haunted look. Tell me the worst, laddie. Have yeer parents no’ sent the candy they promised ye?”

Billy snarled something rude.

“Oot wi’ it,” said Tam.

The boy rose to his feet and thrust his hands deep into the pockets of his slacks.

“Tam,” he said and then there was a long silence which Tam did not break. “I just hate to tell you;” then quickly, “Did you hear anything to-day—about me, I mean?”

“A haird ye were pursood by Mr. Mac Bissing and his world-renowned caircus!”

“That’s right,” said Billy and his face was long and glum. “Tam—gee! I was scared sick! It came over me all in a moment. My mouth went dry and my hands shook and all my bones seemed to turn to water. What do you think of that?”

A bright and kindly light dawned in Tam’s eyes. “A’m glad ye told me,” he said quickly, “and A’m glad it’s ower.”

“Over? What do you mean?”

Tam slid down to the floor and laid his hand on the boy’s shoulder. “Billy,” he said, “d’ye think, that A’ve no’ had that feelin’?”

“You? Why, of course you haven’t.”

“Mon, I had it to-day,” said Tam. “A have it regularly twice a week. A never see a Hun maneuvering for ma tail withoot A don’t wish A were home suppin’ tea wi’ ma Aunt Elizabeth. I have no Aunt Elizabeth, but A often, wish A had. If ye went to Blackie and told him, he would tell ye the same. If ye had a heart-to-heart talk with Richthofen, he would tell ye the same. If ye went down to the Frenchies’ aerodrome and talked it over with the aces, they would all tell ye the same. They’re scared to death. If it wasn’t for that, air fighting would be wilful murder. As it is, it is just justifiable homicide in self-defense.”

“But do you mean,” demanded Billy, “that feeling like that I am fit for scouting—that I’ll have those sensations again?”

“If ye’re normal ye will,” said Tam; “if ye’re mad ye won’t. It’s a sign ye’re healthy, Billy. It relieves ma mind. A was afraid ye were smoking too much.”

“Do you really mean that?” said Billy brightening up.

“A mean it,” said Tam, and his sincerity carried conviction.

Billy remembered this conversation the next morning when forming one of the escort to a bombing squadron which was making its way toward a much too active railway junction, he found himself engaged with that very circus which had occasioned him so much misgiving.

It cheered him to feel that his sensations had their counterpart in the bosom of an invisible German pilot who at that moment was firing at him through his propeller, and when he maneuvered to his enemy’s tail and, following him down in a nose dive, saw the German machine crash and burst into flames, he experienced the righteous sense of satisfaction which comes to the respectable householder who has got the first shot at an armed burglar.

What Tam had not told Billy was that no airman succeeds until he has evolved a system of his own and developed characteristics which remove him from the general run of good workmen and place him in a class by himself. Such things are not to be told to the young lest they form “ground theories,” for systems of fighting are born in a flash in moments of deadly crises. They can not be worked out by rote nor puzzled out in leisure moments.

The versification of air fighting may be mechanically mastered, its poetry defies research and comes in that second of inspiration when the soul of the man who acquires the knowledge is trembling on the brink of eternity.

Billy did things according to the book. He knew all the tricks that skilled masters could teach him, did as well, in fact, as any other good man who had a hand light enough to manipulate the controls of a fast and sensitive scout. He knew when to sideslip, when to loop, when to fall into a tail dive. He knew how to dodge shrapnel and when it need not be dodged. He understood the mechanical side of reconnaissance. In fact, he was, as so many other men have been, a credit to the masters who had pumped into his receptive mind the a-b-c of his work.

It was all to his advantage that he was consumed with that divine discontent which is the very hallmark of genius and that he could detect between his own methods and those of his compeers a difference so subtle as to evade him.

The men of the Flying Corps have no secrets from one another. Their systems are individual and, giving their frankness its lowest value, there is nothing to be gained by preserving a reticence about a method which, since no two men think and act alike, is inimitable.

Bradbury, the American ace, came over to the Umpty-fourth and to him as a compatriot Billy opened his heart. Bradbury listened without smiling.

“There’s nothing to it,” he said when Billy had finished; “it’s just adapting the know-how in a novel way that makes the star airman, I guess—it will come to you. After you’ve crashed about a dozen Germans you’ll find the way you can crash ’em best and then you’ll be a specialist.”

“Huh!” said Billy without enthusiasm.


THERE was little opportunity for specialism during the ensuing days and nights. Early morning reconnaissance work, escort duty to bombing squadrons, patrol guard over the artillery planes, these and other duties of a similar kind offer little scope for the display of initiative.

Billy had a fight or two with “sausage killers,” those venomous wasps who shoot their fiery sting at the helpless and obese observation balloons. He interfered with the comfort of a too venturesome enemy patrol. He enjoyed a little fight on his own over the Lille aerodrome (his enemy was obviously a novice and dived for safety after the first burst of fire) and he experienced the discomforts attendant upon a crash of his own.

Then one day his opportunity came. He was one of a flight told off to escort a special train running from Calais to Paris conveying some important members of the British Government to an inter-allied conference. His flight had to cover eighty miles of the journey where the escort duty was taken up by another flight. Nothing untoward occurred and the train was formally handed over to the new escort and the flight had turned northward on its homeward journey when far away to the right and flying at a considerable elevation Billy saw a solitary airplane which from its shape he judged was German. Tam’s sharp eyes had seen the machine and he had no doubt. He signaled Billy to investigate and Billy swung off eastward. It was indubitably an enemy plane. What was its mission, why it was so far behind the lines or how it had evaded the patrols, Billy did not trouble to think.

At any rate, the enemy machine was not evading Billy and it came round and began a swift glide in his direction. It was an Albatross scout, obviously a two-gun machine, and Billy maneuvered to avoid unpleasantness, recognizing with dismay the certain symptoms of approaching panic. Despite the encouraging talk he had had with Tam those symptoms developed alarmingly.

He felt his breath coming in short gasps. He had a curious sensation in the pit of his stomach. He felt himself breaking into a perspiration and cursed.

The hand at the gun was steady enough. He would have only the fraction of a second to meet and counter the attack. He was horribly lonely and then suddenly his fear turned to an almost insane anger. Why should this man wish to destroy him? What had he done to deserve—

Zip! Zip! Zip!

He felt the bullets whistle past him and saw a great rent in the canvas of his wings. A strut snapped and a wire hung loose. All this he saw before the attacking Albatross flashed by.

Billy banked over in a cold rage and dived straight for the machine. He had no other desire but to ram his enemy.

In the second of time between taking his decision and swooping down to carry it into effect he felt a wild exaltation at the thought of the smash which was coming when the full weight of his heavy scout traveling at one hundred and twenty miles an hour struck home. He had bloody murder in his heart, and only by a miracle did the Albatross escape. Down went the nose of the German, Billy on his tail. By this time something of the old training had asserted itself. He reached for his gun and emptied a tray of ammunition at the falling machine. Something jumped out of the wing, something that looked like a stick with a piece of rag attached. Billy fired again and this time with deadly effect. The machine was wrapped in a pall of smoke, pierced by long streamers of flame.


CADET WILLIAM BEST returned to the aerodrome of the Umpty-fourth in a condition bordering upon the ecstatic. He strutted over to Tam and clapped him on the shoulder with gross familiarity. “Son,” he said, “I’ve found it!”

Tam looked up guiltily. “A’ve found it mesel’,” he said; “’twas under yeer pillow. Mon, those seegairs of yours are no’ what they’re cracked up to be.”

“I don’t mean the key of my box, you pirate,” chortled Billy; “I’ve found my métier.”

“Oh aye,” said Tam, “she’ll be a bonny lass, but ye’re ower young to think o’ marryin’.”

“Métier!” roared Billy. “I’m the Terror of the Skies.”

“Ye’ll have to fight me for that championship,” said Tam. “What’s the sky been doin’ to ye?”

“I am the rammer,” said Billy, biting off the end of a large cigar.

“Open the window,” begged Tam; “it’s the sun, Billy. Ye’ll feel all right in a minute. What have ye been ramming?”

Not briefly did Billy relate his story. He told it in detail. He gave sectional views of his emotions. He described how he felt and why he felt it.

“Condensin’ yeer serial story,” said Tam after a very patient hearing, “into a few pithy paragraphs, A gather ye made an attempt to damage government property and commit suicide and that the heat of yeer language and the fire in yeer eye set a light to puir wee Fritzie. Have ye any other statement to make before A report the disgusting caircumstances to yeer superior officer?”

“But wasn’t it fine, Tam?”

“A’m no’ so sure,” said the cautious Tam, “and at the same time A’m no’ so sure it wasn’t. If yeer daring exploit was witnessed by the other Fritzies ye’ll have a reputation for insanity which ought to make yeer fortune.”


BILLY’s reputation came in a night, was consolidated in a week. His system was a simple one. It was no more and no less than a series of desperate attempts on his part to collide with enemy airplanes. Had he succeeded he would not have survived his success. The story of how he fell spread-eagle upon the great von Bissing and of how that gentleman, one of the most skilful ot fighters, did not look back until he reached his aerodrome; the story of his head-on dive at Major von Hoffer; the story of his gallant attempt to ram von Richthofen himself, have been told so often and have been exaggerated and embellished so frequently that it is not necessary to describe all the particulars of those remarkable combats.

At the end of the second week German airmen prisoners brought the news that several expert fighters were looking for the “mad dog” and Billy was in the seventh heaven of delight. Nobody checked him, because that is not the way of the air service. Nobody warned him or counseled moderation. Battles are not won by paying heed to such counsel. They gave him the best and the fastest machine they could find and they said good-by to him every time he went out, without any great hope that he would be back to lunch.

Tam, whose methods had more finesse, watched his jubilant subordinate and on one occasion, at least, relieved Billy of responsibility by driving down the machine which the boy was maneuvering to crash.

The moral effect upon the enemy was great. Even the skilled fighters gave him a wide berth. Elkstein, who was shot down behind the British lines, explained this reluctance to face the bull-rush dive of the “Rammer.”

“It is good to be killed by fair shooting, also by clever maneuverment, but it is like to be knocked down in the street by a beer wagon for a gallant soldier to outgo from life in such brutal circumstances.”

And Billy reigned supreme, the joy of a hundred tiny mess-rooms up and down the line, until the day that Lieutenant Heinrich Mickelbaum went up in an old-type Taube escorted by a fighting squadron of German scouts and sought the Rammer in that sky area where he loved to roam.

The Intelligence Department of the Royal Flying Corps is singularly efficient. It works in conjunction with other Intelligence Departments and the news it secures is both curious and accurate.

On the morning when Lieutenant Heinrich Mickelbaum and his escort rose, Tam. who had been on an early morning flight, came into the room where Billy was shaving.

“Billy,” said he, “A want to see ye.”

“Feast yer eyes,” said Billy arrogantly.

“’Tis not so fillin’,” said Tam; “mon. will ye never lairn that it is ridiculous to put a reaper over asphalt? A had a dream aboot ye last night.”

“You don’t say?” said Billy politely.

“A dreamt A was making up a bit of poetry about ye, Billy, and was writing a letter to yeer misguided parents. ‘Dear father and mother of Billy Best,’ writes I, ‘yeer puir foolish son is no more. We shall miss him, but the Hun did not, so no more at present. From his late—but never too late to learn—friend. Tam.’”

“Ah,” said Billy, fingering his chin with satisfaction.

“The point of ma story is to come.” said Tam. “Billy, the authorities are worried about ye and they have got a graund stunt for ye. A’ve come to bring the news.”

Billy looked round anxiously. “What’s wrong, Tam?”

“Let other lips tell ye,” said Tam. shaking his head; “A hate to bring ye the sad news, but they’re trying to save yeer life It seems unnecessary, but ye must humor the foolish people.”

“What’s the joke?” demanded Billy.

“Whether ’twas a telegram from President Wilson or Doctor Wilson, as the case may be, or whether they want ye for the movies noo that Charlie Chapiin’s joining up, or whether the Gairman Emperor has threatened reprisals, A don’t know.”

THE mystery was cleared up when Billy put in his appearance at the orderly room and was introduced to a quiet-looking gentleman in the uniform of a staff-major who proved to be Sir George Cannel, the aeronautical expert.

“This is Mr. Best, sir,” said Major Blackie.

The staff-officer nodded. “We have reason to believe that the Hun is going to get you, Mr. Best.” he said, “and as we are anxious not to lose you, we thought that we would like to make a sporting experiment which might or might not save your life and which might or might not prove that certain of our theories are right.”

“Yes, sir,” said Billy, groping for light.

The officer took up a fairly large bundle which lay across Blackie’s desk. It looked like a tightly rolled blanket, though the material was of a much finer texture. Protruding from one end of the bundle were a number of straps.

“This is the Cannel parachute.” he smiled; “it is, in fact, my own invention. We have had one or two experiments from airplanes, but they have not been wholly successful and we have never tried them out in fighting airplanes. Your peculiar method of fighting, however, enables us to —er—er—”

“Make the experiment on my foul body,” smiled Billy; “yes, sir, I would be very pleased.”

“I would not guarantee,” said the staff-officer, “that this is going to save your life, but that doesn’t seem to matter much.”

“Not at all, sir,” said Billy cheerfully.

“I beg your pardon,” laughed the major; “what I mean is that if you collide in midair without this, you are certainly killed. With this you have a fifty to fifty chance of escaping.”

Billy hesitated. “Is that exactly fair to the other man, sir?” he asked.

“The German?”

Billy nodded.

“I shouldn’t worry very much about him,” said the officer dryly; “it is by no means a certainty that you will escape. The odds are two to one that the parachute will get entangled in the fuselage. It is not like a clean drop from a balloon. It is an even chance that you will be insensible when the crash comes and be unable to operate. In fact, the, chances are all against you.”

“I’ll take ’em then,” said Billy promptly.

The necessary instructions did not take very long. The working of the parachute was simplicity itself, always providing he could jump clear of the falling machine. If it turned turtle or fell sideways the chances of saving his life were remote.

Billy, strapped and belted, with the parachute lightly fastened to the nacelle behind him and the release string within his reach, went up in search of adventure with less pleasure than he usually experienced when he set forth. Adventure he soon found and that immediately behind the German line. Six enemy machines, five of the newest pattern and one which was strange to him and which was obviously slower than the rest, came into sight and then, as if on some signal, four of the six retired, leaving a slow monoplane to meet the Rammer.

Billy maneuvered for height and reached his enemy’s level. He did not doubt that the usual thing would happen, that before his devastating rush his enemy would drop in flight, exposing himself to the pursuer’s gun.

Something within him made him hesitate to attack. It wasn’t fair. The chances were not equal. If he were sure that the parachute would not act, he would have gone joyously to the fight; but there was an outside risk of safety. His opponent settled all misgivings by suddenly turning and heading his way. In a moment Billy forgot his scruples. Straight at the Taube he went, all out, his engines roaring like a mill. Nearer and nearer—then Billy realized with a gasp and a return of the old panic feeling that the machine would not avoid him. This, then, was Billy’s last fight. He recognized its inevitability, saw the end and with a quick jerk of his hand released the safety-catch of the parachute.

The machines collided at an angle. Billy leaped up into the air and was jerked back by the weight of the parachute. He was horribly shocked and jarred. He did not know what had happened to the machines save that they had collided. He smelled something burning, was flung upward again and was again pulled back and felt himself falling, falling at a terrifying rate through the air.

He closed his eyes. “He did not pray nor experience the slightest tinge of fear. He was just curious and found himself wondering why there was such pressure under his arms. He opened his eyes and looked up. Above his head was spread a big circular umbrella shape. The parachute had acted.

He almost fainted for the first time in his life as he realized the fact. He looked down. He saw the two machines whirling downward in smoke and flame, tumbling (slowly as it seemed) to earth and again felt that twinge of remorse that he had experienced before the fight had started.

“Poor devil,” he muttered, “it wasn’t fair.”

Somebody was talking, yelling is a better word, cursing would be a truer description. With an effort he turned round. Not fifty yards away and level with him was another parachute and suspended therefrom a red-faced German officer who alternately cursed him in English and German.

“Pig! Schweinehund!” he roared. “You have no bravery. Ha! You have parachute. You can not take risk. You always have parachute, you brave fellow.”

“You’re a liar!” veiled Billy.

“Pig!” said the German.

“When I get down I’ll break your head!” shouted Billy.

The parachutes were drifting nearer together. Conversation was almost impossible unless the men raised their voices.

“You are so bold a fellow that you can not come up to fight mit German gentleman mitout a parachute, eh?”

“Listen, you poor boob,” yelled Billy; “what do you think you are hanging on to, a damned Christmas-tree?”

They were still quarreling violently when they descended gently into a field behind the British support line. They were quarreling when delighted Tommies released them from their straps and from the staff car that carried them both back to headquarters. The sound of their recriminations came to the admiring soldiery long after they had passed out of sight round the bend of the road.</story>