<story title="THE EDGWARE ROAD CRIME" date="1924">
HILIP, the footman at the Frolic Club, was gazing pensively into the long and beautiful saloon when he heard a footstep on the marble pavement of the vestibule, and, turning round, met the cold scrutiny of Middlebrow. The tall, good-looking footman bowed as his lordship passed.

"Good morning, my lord," he said.

Lord Felboro turned back. Glancing round to see that he could not be over­heard:

"You were once in very serious trouble, weren't you, Philip?"

"Yes, my lord."

"You were, in fact, a convict. I am told?"

"That is so, my lord," said Philip quietly.

"I want you to come to my place in Grosvenor Gardens this afternoon. I have a little job I should like you to do, though I don't remember that you were particularly successful the last time my—er—friends employed you."

"That was very unfortunate, my lord." said Philip.

Without another word his lordship walked into the dining-room, found a corner seat, and waited with some impatience for the arrival of his friend and confederate. When Sir Charles Tasker waddled in, there was on his unhealthy face a frown which Felboro recognized as a sign of the man's perturbation of mind.

"Have you seen that cursed newspaper?" was Tasker's first question.

"I have seen that cursed newspaper," said the other, smiling faintly. "You mean the Daily Megaphone—accursed for the moment because it has published a fantastical story about the Earl of Nowhere."

London had been agog over this same Earl of Nowhere for months past. He had appeared in a dozen extraordinary circumstances, and the newspaper which had set itself to investigate the wherefore of this strange apparition had discovered that every time the Earl of Nowhere had made his appearance it had been to the disadvantage of one man, and one man only—The Earl of Felboro.

"I've got the paper in my pocket——" began Tasker.

"I have the cutting in mine," said his lordship. "According to this enterprising journal, the Earl of Nowhere is in reality the Earl of Somewhere. In other words, he is the heir to the Saltesh property, which I administer, and which he accuses me, not so much of maladministration as of having stolen the property and applied the proceeds of its sale to my own base purposes—very amusing, is it not, Tasker?"

"Do you call that amusing?" almost bellowed the baronet, as he took the paper from his pocket and laid it on the table before the other.

His lordship fixed his monocle and examined the marriage certificate that had been reproduced.

"It is probably a fake," he said. "You know what these newspapers are—they will do anything for sensation——"

"Suppose it isn't a fake?" demanded Tasker. "Suppose this is a reproduction of the genuine certificate, and that old Saltesh was secretly married to some infernal girl, then the heir—the paper prints his birth certificate—can come down on you for an account of your stewardship. That would be rather awkward."

"It would be more than awkward—it would be painful," said Lord Felboro. "But why hasn't he come into the light before? Why was it necessary for him to adopt this stupid disguise and make himself a nuisance to me?"

Tasker did not answer. Raising his eyes at that moment Lord Felboro saw a familiar figure come into the dining room.

"There's Selby," he said coolly. "He's rather clever at guessing riddles—I'll ask him over."

He smiled and beckoned Jim Selby, and Jim, who had had a very unhappy experience with the unscrupulous Lord Felboro, hesitated for a second, and then, curiosity getting the better of him, he walked across to where sat the two men whom, of all others, he most completely distrusted.

"Sit down, Selby. Have you seen my daughter this morning—by the way, she has been with you a great deal lately. I do hope that you're not going to get her talked about?"

"My dear Lord Felboro," said Jim blandly, "as if the scandal of being your daughter would not outweigh any other which is likely to come her way! I have asked Vyvan to be my wife."

Felboro raised his eyebrows.

"In these matters," he said, a little irritably, "one usually consults the parents of one's fiancée."

"I didn't think it was worth a consultation," said Jim coolly. "The truth is, Lord Felboro, if you can bear the truth——"

"I will endeavour," murmured the other.

"Your name is not a particularly savoury one, and I thought I was acting in your best interests when I ignored you."

Felboro mastered his momentary rage with an effort and smiled.

"I wish you joy," he said ironically. "I had other plans for Vyvan, but"—he shrugged his shoulders—"she and I have never been exactly en rapport." He looked at Jim long and thoughtfully, and then: "I brought you over to ask you something. Now what the devil was it?" In this manner did he dismiss the subject of his daughter's future, to which, if the truth be told, he had in that consideration given more thought than ever he had given in his life. Jim Selby was a man in comfortable circumstances; he was, moreover, the sole heir of an immensely rich uncle. He might be useful in the future, he decided. And as though he read his thoughts, Jim said quietly:

"This marriage, of course, will end our association, Lord Felboro. I hope you will never look upon me as a convenient son-in-law, because if you do you will be disappointed."

Again he was favoured with that cold stare.

"What the devil was it I wanted to see you about? Oh, I know! I was going to ask you what you thought of the revelations in this morning's Megaphone. I am starting an action for libel, of course."

Jim smiled.

"You would hardly be well advised, would you? There is no doubt that when the Earl of Saltesh died he left an heir to his property——"

"Why hasn't he come forward and claimed it?" growled Tasker. "That's what we want to know. What does he want to go monkeying about for, wearing masks and all that sort of thing?"

The solution of that mystery had already come to Jim.

"He wants his money back," he said, "And from what I've heard and what I guess, he's got quite a lot. Suppose he had come demanding the fortune that his father had left, what chance would he have had of getting it? He might have had you arrested for defalcation, but it would be a question as to whether he would get a conviction. You're much too clever a man not to have covered your tracks. Instead, calling himself the Earl of Nowhere, he has appeared at very awkward times for you, and by this method has managed to bleed you, at any rate, of some of his money."

The other bit his lip thoughtfully.

"Yes, there is that," he said. "Such a solution has already occurred to me. Do you know who he is?"

Jim shrugged.

"The Earl of Nowhere? The Megaphone says that he is staying in a Bloomsbury flat, waiting the psychological moment to come forward and enter his claim to the estate. Apparently his mother, after his birth, took him to America, and there he remained in ignorance of his parentage till by an accidental discovery of some of his father's letters he learnt that he was the heir to the Saltesh estate."

"All rot!" interrupted the other impatiently. "That's what the newspaper says. But he'll have some trouble to establish his claim, and greater trouble to get from me what little money there is left."

"That I can well believe," said Jim as he rose to go.

Tasker waited until the King's Messenger was out of hearing, and then he turned to his companion.

"What are you going to do about this? Will you fight it?"

"In the courts?" asked Felboro contemptuously. "Am I mad? Of course, I will use every process of the law to keep this man at arm's length, and I shall oppose his claim right up to the last."

"And if it succeeds," sneered Tasker, "what will happen to you?"

His lordship lit a cigarette and sent a curl of smoke whirling to the ceiling before he spoke.

"He mustn't succeed," he said, and added: "I want you to be at Grosvenor Gardens this afternoon, not later than three."

"What is going to happen?" asked Sir Charles fearfully.

"I will tell you—then," was the unsatisfactory reply.

As he walked out of the club and got into his car he saw his daughter drive up in a taxi, and he had half a mind to stop and talk to her, but with a shrug of his shoulders sank back into the luxurious depths of the padded seat and promptly erased her from his thoughts.

She was lunching with Jim that day, and was later than most guests usually are.

"I saw Father: he was driving off as I arrived," she said as she preceded Jim to the table be had reserved. "Is it true, what is in the newspapers?"

Jim nodded.

"I don't think there is any doubt about it," he said, "There is an Earl of Saltesh, and he intends claiming the estate which your father administered."

"But Father says there is no estate to claim."

"I don't suppose there is," said Jim dryly.

He might have added that with such a trustee as Lord Felboro the chance of the new earl coming into a substantial kingdom was a very remote one.

Vyvan made no further reference throughout the lunch to her father. She had no illusions about him; knew that he had been associated with more shady deals than any convicted swindler. He was one of the ugly facts of life that she must accept; and for a long time she had been aware that only his cleverness and the position he held in society had prevented his arrest in connection with half-a-dozen financial swindles which he had either engineered or in which he had conspicuously participated. The bearer of an honoured name, he had been crooked from his youth up. And that he had succeeded in winning the confidence of the Earl of Saltesh to such an extent that that elderly and dissolute man had made him his sole trustee, was not so much a tribute to his craft, which quality he did not lack, as to the sympathy that existed between these two men.

He was sitting in his study that afternoon at three o'clock when Tasker arrived. That stout man, seating himself uncomfortably on the edge of a chair, waited in some trepidation for Felboro to unfold his plan. But apparently his lordship was in no hurry to give his confidence.

"You'll have to wait a little while," he said. "I am expecting a visitor."

"Who is that?" asked Sir Charles uneasily.

"A man in the employ of the Megaphone newspaper," said Felboro. "I have always found, my dear Charles, that if you wish to get information from a great company, there are two sources which are infallible. The first of these is the head of the company, who is, as a rule, a very rich person. The second is any individual who has access to facts. A striking illustration of this is to be found in the case of the young man in the registered letter department of the Post Office. And although our scheme came to grief, my theory worked out excellently well. Now, if I wanted to discover the writer or inspirer of these articles in the Megaphone, and I went to the editor or to the proprietor of the newspaper, it is ninety-nine chances to one that I should be kicked out of the office. Newspaper editors have a very keen sense of their responsibilities. The Megaphone says that the real Earl of Saltesh is living in a flat in Bloomsbury—which means, of course, that he is doing nothing of the kind. That paragraph was merely put in as a blind, to throw any seeker off the track. Through my valet I have succeeded in getting into touch with a messenger at the Megaphone office, who not only knows where the particulars I require are filed, but has the means of getting in touch with them."

His explanation was interrupted by the footman announcing Mr. John Jennings, who proved to be a rather tall, broad-shouldered man of middle age.

Mr. Jennings had a red and bovine face, and displayed natural nervousness at the presence of a third person.

"That is quite all right, Jennings—sit down and have a cigar," said his lordship. "Sir Charles, here, is an old friend of mine, and you can speak with perfect freedom before him. Did you find what I wanted?"

"Yes, my lord," said the man.

"I've seen the original 'copy' as it came in from this man. He calls himself Wilkins, and he's staying at No. 16, Elmer Gardens, Edgware Road. That was the name on the letter attached to the 'copy'. I had an awful job getting it. All the old 'copy' on the Megaphone is kept in a special room on the linotype floor. Of course, I should lose my job if it was known what I had done."

"It will never be known. Wilkins, of 16, Elmer Gardens, Edgware Road." Lord Felboro wrote it down rapidly, "Splendid!"

He opened a little safe, took out three crisp notes, and handed them across to the gratified messenger, who was ushered from the room incoherent with gratitude.

"It is deliciously simple," said his lordship, after he had seen the man off the premises. "Fortunately, I know something about newspaper offices, and I knew that if the facts were communicated to the Megaphone, as obviously they were, the name of the informant would very likely be attached to the 'copy.' It was a simple matter getting in touch with this messenger man——"

"What are you going to do now?" asked Tasker.

"I will tell you in a few minutes. I have asked Philip to come here this afternoon."

"What do you want him to do?" asked Tasker apprehensively.

"I want him to get me those two certificates that are reproduced in this morning's newspaper, and more especially I wish him to get the letters from Saltesh to his wife, that the paper says are in his possession. I don't think it will be difficult. Here is Philip."

The door opened at that minute to admit the convict footman.

"I propose paying you ten thousand pounds for the services which I shall ask of you," said Lord Felboro slowly, and then outlined his plan, Philip listening intently.

"It seems easy, my lord," he said. "It this man lives at the address I can get into the house without much trouble. Are you sure the papers are there?"

For answer Lord Felboro took the cutting from his pocket and read:

The letters which prove beyond doubt the identity of the Earl of Saltesh, and support the story of this romantic secret marriage, are in the earl's possession and never leave him day or night.

Philip nodded.

"If that is true, you can reckon on having those papers to-night," he said. "When do I get paid?"

"The moment they are placed in my hand I will keep my promise," said Felboro.

* * * * *

It was eleven o'clock. The hour had just struck from a local church, and Tasker, who had spent an agonizing two hours in the little study, suddenly jumped to his feet.

"How are you going to pay him?"

"In instalments," was the cool reply. "I've got less than three thousand pounds on the premises, and perhaps he'll get a thousand on account—if he's lucky."

Half-past eleven struck—twelve—and then, when Felboro had given up hope of seeing his agent, and Tasker had put on and taken off his greatcoat for the tenth time, there came a gentle knock at the door. Felboro had left the study door open, and had sent the servants to bed, and it was he who turned the knob noiselessly to admit the visitor.

Philip was in a hurry.

"Shut that door quick!" he grunted.

"What's wrong—are they after you?" asked Felboro, with an unaccustomed flutter at his heart.

"No, not yet. There's something I want to tell you."

Felboro followed him into the study. One glance at Philip told him that something was very badly wrong.

"Have you got the letters?" he asked.

"No," growled the man, and Felboro's heart sank.

"Couldn't you find them?"

"Yes, I found them; they were on the table when he came in."

"He came in while you were doing the job?" howled Tasker. "Curse him! I knew something like that would happen . . . you told?"

"No—told nothing!" snapped Philip. "He pulled a gun on me, and held me up. He said: 'I know who you are; you've come from Lord Felboro.'"

"What did you say?" asked Felboro. "I told him he was a liar," said Philip, "but he only laughed. He said: 'I've filed an action against Felboro, which he'll not be able to defend."

Felboro smiled.

"Oh, is that so?" he said softly. "I'll have my defence into the court within forty-eight hours of the writ being served on me. Well, what happened then?"

"He recognized me. He said: 'You're Philip from the Frolics Club,'" the man went on, and Felboro started. Here was a complication he had not expected.

"Well?"

"Well," repeated the burglar with a sneer, "what do you think that meant to me? Meant I was going to lose a good job. You don't suppose I was going to stand for that? I hit him with my life-preserver and knocked him out. Look!" He stretched out his hands; to Felboro's horror they were stained with blood.

"You—killed him?" asked Tasker. Philip nodded.

"Yes, he's dead. You've got to help me get out of the country."

Lord Felboro staggered.

"Dead? You killed him?" he asked hollowly.

"It was he or I," said the burglar between his teeth. "He was expecting me. He had told his friends that I was coming, and that you were going to send me. I want some money."

Like a man in a dream, Felboro opened the safe, and, taking out a packet of notes, gave a few to the man.

"What about my ten thousand?"

"You can't have it. You'd better take what you can get."

The man counted the money, grumbling. "Seven hundred," he said in disgust.

"That's enough to get you out of the country. We shall want the rest for ourselves. Now clear."

Philip slunk out of the room, and they heard the door close behind him. The two men, left alone, looked at one another. "I think this is the end," said Felboro. He put the remainder of the notes in his pocket.

"Go home and collect all the money you can. Drive yourself to Harwich and catch the early morning boat for the Continent. I will go by way of Dover-Flushing."

"But they can't bring us into it," faltered Sir Charles, "If Philip gets away—"

"You don't suppose a chap like that can get away? He hasn't the brains to make an escape. Before to-morrow night we shall be under arrest if we stay here. Clear out!"

At seven o'clock the next morning a tall and distinguished-looking man strolled along the Dover quay.

Half-an-hour later the Earl of Felboro, wrapped in a heavy fur overcoat, was watching the cliffs of Dover grow fainter and fainter.

It was on the tenth of the month that Lord Felboro made his dramatic escape from England, and on the twenty-fifth when, minus his moustache, and with his appearance slightly altered, he sat down to breakfast in a little Viennese café and asked for the first English newspaper he had seen since he left England. He turned the pages, seeking some information about the Marble Arch murder. He knew there had been a murder somewhere in the neighbourhood of Marble Arch, because, when he was in Berlin, he heard two Englishmen speaking about it, and moved away lest his face betrayed him.

Now he saw the news—a rather attenuated paragraph headed "The Edgware Road Crime":

Walter Brayde, the man charged with the alleged murder of his wife in the Edgware Road, was committed for trial yesterday.

Walter Brayde—wife? What did it mean? On the seventh—that crime had been committed three days before he left England!

He turned the pages in bewilderment, and then he saw a startling heading which held his eye and left him breathless:



THE SALTESH CASE
NEW EARL'S CLAIM ESTABLISHED

The paragraph which followed ran:


Lord Felboro has had eight days to file a defence in the action brought by the claimant to the Saltesh earldom, and as he has failed to contest the action which his lordship is bringing for the recovery of the estate, Lord Saltesh automatically succeeds in his action.

The new Lord Saltesh has had an adventurous career. He arrived in this country from America penniless, and for some time was employed at the Frolics Club, where he was known as Philip. To the suggestion made by our representative that he was the original Earl of Nowhere, whose mysterious appearances and disappearances were so startling, his lordship laughingly replied that the real Earl of Nowhere, so far as he knew, was Lord Felboro, whose sudden disappearance front London has been so much commented upon.</story>