<story title="THE POST-OFFICE CLERK" date="1924">
THE Rugarian Minister gave a dinner and dance in honour of his sovereign's birthday, and the big house in Portman Square was filled with the élite of London society. The curious crowd which stood on the pavement were kept clear of the cover which the red awning stretching to the kerb afforded, and watched the glittering arrivals and cheered in a half-hearted fashion the popular minister, whose duty brought him to the reception.

Detective-Inspector Bennett, on duty in the big hall, saw a familiar figure wearing on his coat the glittering insignia of a Rugarian order, and became instantly alert. The Earl of Felboro handed his crush hat and his coat to an attendant, mechanically smoothed his hair, and strolled up the hall towards the stairs that led to the drawing-room. Suddenly his eyes caught the detective's, and he nodded.

"Good evening, Mr. Bennett," he said. "You're keeping an eye on Mr. Vereski's diamonds, one hopes?"

"Yes, my lord," said Inspector Bennett with a smile.

"Stout fellow," said his lordship, and went slowly up the stairs.

Bennett jerked his chin upwards and a guest in evening dress who had been lounging in the hall came towards him.

"Follow Felboro; don't leave him out of your sight."

"Lord Felboro?" said the other in surprise.

"Lord Felboro," said Bennett emphatically. "You're not likely to see a bigger crook in Portman Square to-night."

"Good lord!" gasped his subordinate, to whom this was news indeed. "What—the Earl of Felboro—a crook?"

"Follow him," said the other tersely, "and keep him under observation."

Nobody knew better than Inspector Bennett how dangerous a man this good-looking nobleman was, and how insuperably difficult was the task of countering his many enterprises. Scotland Yard knew him to be associated with some of the worst gangs of swindlers in Europe. Society knew him as a man with an unenviable reputation, and guessed all that Scotland Yard suspected. But suspicion was one thing, knowledge another. A false move might ruin the highest-placed police official, and an indiscreet word of condemnation might cost the boldest of society men just as much money as a jury would award for libel.

Lord Felboro might not be received in the Royal Enclosure, but so many people were under a similar ban: and society found no excuse for barring him from their entertainments. Outwardly he was a polished, charming gentleman; be certainly had the privilege of calling the prettiest girl in London daughter. There were many glances of covert unfriendliness turned towards him as he strolled up to the minister and shook hands, but he was too dangerous a man for the majority of people to offend openly.

Lady Vyvan Sanclair was standing in the corner of the room talking to Jim Selby when her father appeared, and the smile left her face.

"I didn't know my father would be here," she said.

Jim was looking round.

"Where is his unspeakable friend?"

In these unflattering terms he spoke of Felboro's shadow, but the podgy little Sir Charles Tasker had not been invited.

"Is your father interested in Rugarian politics?" asked Jim.

She shook her head.

"I don't know; I don't think so," she said.

"I wonder why he's here," he said thoughtfully.

He might have added that he saw nothing to be gained for Lord Felboro out of this social function, but he would not run the risk of hurting her feelings.

She took his arm and led him into an anteroom, and found a settee in one of the corners, partially secluded from view.

"I want to talk very seriously to you, Jim," she said, "and it's about this terrible man, the Earl of Nowhere."

He chuckled.

"I almost said I'm tired of hearing about the Earl of Nowhere," he said. "In fact, I dare not go to a fancy dress ball for fear I see a black mask appear from his ancestral home, which I understand is really the bottomless pit!"

"Be serious," she said. "You know, of course, my father was trustee of the Saltesh estate? The old earl died without issue, and father administered the property."

"Yes, there was no property to administer, according to your father's statement. He was the nearest friend of Lord Saltesh and was in his confidence, and, according to him, he had known all along that the estate was insolvent. This mysterious mask claims to be the heir to the title and the non-existent property."

She nodded.

"Father had a letter from him this morning: I saw it when I went into his study. It contained the most dreadful accusations; said that father had gambled away half a million pounds belonging to the writer! There was a long list of the various estates which this mysterious man said father had sold, with a price against each, and the date on which they were disposed of. And it finished up: I am conferring upon you the Earldom of Dartmoor, and within a month you will take up your position at your new family seat."

"What did your father say?" asked Jim.

He came in and saw me reading the letter. He seemed amused; and yet I couldn't help feeling that behind his smile there was a—fear.

"Of course, it's all bunkum," laughed Jim. "I haven't a very good opinion of your father, but I don't imagine that Saltesh left a penny."

"You're wrong, Jim. Something father told me later leaves no doubt in my mind that there were these estates. And then I had a very serious talk with him at lunch. He said that there might be somebody who thought they had a right to the Saltesh estate, that there was a little money to go to the heir, and that he was going to bank it, in case there was a legal claim."

"What does that mean?" asked Jim.

"I don't know, I can't think. All that I know is that at the moment father has no money to bank at all! You know, dear, he is an inveterate gambler, and every penny he gets goes that way."

She was silent for a moment, and he asked:

"What do you—guess?"

"That father is terrified; that these continuous threats have so got on to his mind and have so terrified him that he intends getting the money by hook or by crook, so that he may have it on the day the claim is made. His confidence seems to be shaken by the information which this mysterious person has."

Jim whistled.

"Half a million wants getting," he said, very truly.

So thought Lord Felboro. When he returned to his house that night he found Sir Charles Tasker dozing in a chair before the fire, and roused him by the simplest expedient of kicking his foot as he passed. The little man blinked himself awake.

"Hallo!" he growled, a scowl on his unprepossessing face. "I've been waiting here since ten." He looked at the clock over the mantelpiece. "It's one now. You told me ten——"

"If I'd told you six, you'd have been here, my dear fellow," said his lordship, helping himself to a whisky and soda. "I've been to Vereski's reception."

"Well?"

"The famous Vereski diamonds were on view, as also were the notorious Vereski emeralds. They adorned the portly person of his good lady. I was scared that they had already been sent to Rugaria."

Sir Charles grunted something.

"On the contrary, it was very interesting," said his lordship, as he drained the glass and set it down on the table, "and in a way amusing. Bennett from Scotland Yard was there; he put a man on to trail me—he was never more than a foot away from me throughout the evening. I want those stones, Tasker."

"You're a fool," spluttered the other. "Burglary is not in your line. What did you want to go and see them for?"

"To make sure they were in London—and let me add that anything is in my line," said Felboro coolly.

"You can count me out," grunted Sir Charles.

"I have already counted you out, my friend, though I shall need your help. You have a smuggling friend who returns to America on Saturday. He can take the stones with him."

The other glared up at him.

"What's the good of that kind of game?" he asked. "Do you imagine you could sell the jewels in the open market? And if they went to one of these fellows who deal in stolen property——"

"Fence' is the word you want," said Lord Felboro. "I shouldn't get a twentieth of their value—I know all about that. And believe me, my dear Charles, I do not intend going to a fence. Stones, taken from their mounts and added to a few others, could be smuggled into America and would fetch top price. There's from a hundred thousand to two hundred thousand pounds for the asking. Pull yourself together and then come down to the club: I believe there's an all-night session, and I should like to introduce you to a counter-revolutionary who has been my guest there since eight o'clock this evening."

"I don't want to go to the club," growled the little man. "Do you realize we've put ourselves in the power of that cursed footman? And what's this rubbish about revolutions?"

Lord Felboro laughed softly, but did not answer the latter part of the question.

"Philip? My dear man, an ex-convict wields very little power. The criminal classes are notorious liars, and even the credulous Mr. Bennett would place very little reliance upon any statement that Philip made."

"He bungled the last business——" began Sir Charles.

"Not he, but we. Let us give him credit. He is a reliable man, and we may yet find him useful. Come along, my car is at the door."

Grumbling, the baronet followed his host into the street and shiveringly buttoned his coat to his neck, for the night was cold and raw.

At the Frivolity Club the festivities were at their height. The dancing floor was almost ankle deep in confetti; streamers hung from the chandeliers; and the revellers were in that stage of exhilaration which is so difficult to distinguish from the more sordid varieties of intoxication.

Lord Felboro stood in the doorway, his quick eyes scanning the people in the room. And then the band struck up, and the couples left their tables to fill the floor, and with this thinning-out process he saw the man he sought. It was a young man in an ill-fitting evening suit that looked as though it had been made for somebody else, and he sat aloof from the cheery throng at a small table placed in a corner of the room. Apparently he was quite satisfied with his isolation, for he beamed stupidly upon the gay throng as it wove a pattern of kaleidoscopic colour across the limited dancing space.

"That's our man," said Felboro, and, threading his way through the dancers, he came to the lonely occupant of the table.

A paper cap was askew on his head, and a grotesque paper cravat was tied about his throat, He looked up with a foolish smile as Felboro and his companion came.

"Hallo, my lord!" he said, and made a blundering attempt to rise.

"Sit down, Dempster," said Felboro. "You haven't any wine. Tut, tut, this will never do. I told the head waiter to keep you supplied with anything you wanted."

"You've been simply topping to me, my lord!" said the young man enthusiastically. "I've never had such an evening in my life. Mind you, they're a bit standoffish here, and when I asked one of these girls to dance, the fellow who was with her looked at me as though he'd cut my throat for fourpence!"

"Perhaps you have to bring your own dancing partners to places like this," said Felboro good-humouredly. "Still, you're enjoying yourself?"

"It's ripping," said the other. "I'll have something to tell the fellows about at the office!"

"You haven't danced, eh?"

Lord Felboro fumbled his chin and took a swift glance round the hall. Presently he saw a girl whom he knew, and, going across to her, whispered a few words. She smiled and, rising, preceded him back.

"I want to introduce Mr. Dempster, Miss Dail," said Felboro. "I'm sure Miss Dail would give you a dance."

"Why, of course," said the girl, and led the stammering young man out on to the floor.

"Who the devil is he?" asked Sir Charles, gazing at the vacuous youth as he piloted his partner with some skill.

"His name is Dempster; he is a clerk in the post office, and it is his job to keep a record of all the heavily insured registered packages which go out of this country to the Continent," said Felboro slowly. "In fact, he not only prepares the waybill, but he seals the bag. I met him some time ago through a friend of mine."

"But what's the idea?" asked Sir Charles, when the other paused.

"The Rugarian minister returns to the Balkans to-morrow. He had a telegram this morning—rather, yesterday morning—calling him into consultation. He will be abroad for six months." Lord Felboro spoke rapidly, lowering his voice. "Madame Vereski invariably transports her jewellery through the post, since she had her case stolen a few years ago. To-morrow a registered package will come to Mr. Dempster and will be dealt with in the usual way."

"And you will be in the office and ring the changes?" suggested Sir Charles, and in spite of his annoyance Felboro laughed.

"You're a fool! Suppose I did, and the stones were missing, do you think the inquiry wouldn't embrace me? No; my plan is very much more simple. To-morrow afternoon the stones will be taken to the G.P.O., handed over the counter, and sent by special messenger to Dempster's room. They will be placed in the bag and apparently forwarded. I say 'apparently' because the package addressed to the Rugarian Foreign Office will be brought to my house by Dempster," he said coolly.

The other's jaw dropped.

"Are you serious?"

"Quite serious," he said.

Tasker saw a warning glance in his companion's eyes, and the next minute the young man came back. For a while no conversation was possible; but when another man had claimed the girl and taken her away to dance, the three were left alone and Lord Felboro immediately turned the conversation in the direction he had carefully chosen.

"Well, Dempster, have you got any farther with your investigations?"

The young man's face instantly assumed an air of sobriety.

"Yes, my lord," he said, "I have got proof now that the revolution is timed for the fourteenth of December."

"Revolution?" croaked Tasker in surprise, when a warning glance from the other stopped him.

"Arms have been coming into this country by the thousand," the youth went on. "The Red Army is almost equipped, and on the day——"

"When will the day be?" asked Felboro anxiously.

Dempster shook his silly head.

"That I haven't been able to discover," he said gravely. "I only want that to expose the whole plot. If I could only find the mysterious power that is working behind the scenes——"

"Ah!" said Felboro, shook his head and sighed.

"You don't know?" asked the other eagerly. "Why, you guyed me the first time I spoke about the revolution."

"One doesn't betray oneself to a new acquaintance."

"Do you know who is the 'Idden 'And'?" In his agitation Mr. Dempster took great liberties with the Kings English.

"I know where this movement is being directed from," said Felboro slowly, "and I know that to-morrow a complete list of the chief conspirators, the stations and the secret orders, is going out of this country to the controlling power."

Sir Charles Tasker, who had sat dumbfounded through the conversation, began to see light. Mr. Dempster stared at his lordly host.

"I suppose, my lord, nothing would induce you to give me that information?"

The voice of the amateur detective was tremulous with anxiety; he was almost sober in the pursuit of his illusion.

Felboro looked left and right and lowered his voice.

"The chief conspirator is Monsieur Vereski, the Rugarian minister," he said. "I have been doing a little secret service work myself, and I know that he is leaving the country hurriedly to-morrow, and that, in order that he should not be searched, he is sending all the information by post."

Mr. Dempster's face went red and while.

"Not registered?" he asked eagerly.

Felboro shook his head.

"That I haven't been able to discover."

"Suppose he does?" burbled the young man. "Suppose it comes through me? Gosh! What a chance!"

"You wouldn't dare open it, it would be too risky," said Lord Felboro.

"Wouldn't I, though? I'd do anything for the dear old country," said the patriotic Mr. Dempster.

Felboro frowned, evidently deep in thought.

"You could get it away without anybody knowing, make an examination, take a copy of the documents, and then send them on as though nothing had happened—it might be done that way."

This Mr. Dempster considered.

"I could, with a little help," he said anxiously.

"I hate offering my assistance. The risk is so great, and I should be practically at your mercy." His lordship silenced the others protests of loyalty. "But I'll risk it. Bring the package to my house. . . . But suppose you're detected?"

Dempster went pale at the thought.

"I wouldn't care; I'd say nothing," he affirmed stoutly. "And it could be done."

"'Phone me in the morning—yes or no," said his lordship at parting. "I will be waiting for you."

It was a very long time before Sir Charles Tasker could find his voice after the young man had gone.

"I don't know whether I'm awake or asleep. With such lunatics as this——"

"There are thousands of them, sometimes on the side of the revolutionaries and sometimes against them. They're prepared to believe any cock-and-bull story that's got a revolver and a bomb in it. Why, one of the biggest patriotic societies in the country had a meeting the other day, and a public speaker said there were a hundred and twenty thousand armed Reds awaiting the signal to rise! And a million people believed him! This kind of obsession is as common as jazz."

"But suppose he squeaks?"

"He won't," said Felboro quickly. "I'll find a pretext for examining the contents of the package alone, and I'll report there's nothing there. When the parcel reaches its destination and it is found that the stones are gone, he'll be too scared to tell the part he's played, and may look upon it merely as a plot on the part of a Red enemy to ruin him."

"Can such fools exist?"

"There's one born every minute," said his lordship sententiously.

There was no doubt whatever that Lord Felboro was in a very serious frame of mind. The drip-drip of threats had worn a cavity in the stone of his complacency. There was no heir to the earldom of Saltesh: this he asserted in and out of season until he believed his own assertion. It was fairly clear that there existed somebody who sincerely believed in the honesty of his claim; and this mysterious person, who called himself the Earl of Nowhere, was most diabolically well informed. Felboro would take no risks. He might never be called upon to find the money, but this mystery man might produce proof, and in that case it would be an Old Bailey matter unless the money was in existence, even though Felboro promised himself that he would fight like the devil to retain its possession.

And there was a certain piquant novelty in stealing to save. Hitherto he had robbed to squander, and had lived alternately on the heights of prosperity and in the deep and gloomy valleys of poverty.

He was dressing next morning when the telephone bell rang, and he heard the agitated voice of his humble friend.

"The word is emphatically 'yes.' I've been thinking it over, your lordship, and——"

"Don't talk so much on the wire," said Lord Felboro. "I will be waiting."

He did not give the young man a chance of' speaking further, but hung up the receiver.

That he might involve this misguided youth in total ruin did not disturb him for a second. His only concern was with himself. He must cover his tracks so effectively that, even though the authorities traced Dempster to his house, they could not connect him with the robbery he contemplated. And as to the Earl of Nowhere—he frowned. At least the Unknown was ignorant of this little scheme of his.

The excuse for Dempster's calling was not difficult to find. Lord Felboro had first met the young man when he had called at the house to collect a subscription towards a boys' club in which Dempster was interested, for he was a young man with a public spirit. And his lordship arranged that both the subscription card, which had been left with him, and his cheque, dated that day, and a little note which he wrote in the course of the afternoon, should go away with Dempster and should stand as sufficient reason for the visit.

It was five o'clock when the young man came. He was trembling with excitement, and no sooner had the study door closed than he whispered:

"I've got it! . . . directed to Vereski himself, and registered!"

"What did you do?"

"I put it on the waybill, but didn't send it in the bag. I can easily correct the mistake to-morrow. Here it is."

He brought out a flat, oblong package, heavily wrapped in white paper, taped and sealed, and laid it on the table. Lord Felboro looked at the package with a scientific eye.

"I think I can get this out without disturbing the seals," he said. "Will you excuse me a moment?"

He walked quickly into the little inner study and closed the door. The instruments he was likely to use he had laid out, and in five minutes he had opened the case, slipped out the jewels and dropped them in his pocket before he replaced the covering. So quick was he that when he came back to the expectant youth with the package apparently untouched, Dempster thought the parcel had not been opened.

"I've been thinking it over," said Felboro gravely, "and I've decided that, in your best interests, these seals ought not to be forced. The documents may be there; on the other hand, there may be something valuable, and it would be a very serious thing for you if that was so."

"Aren't you going to open it?"

Felboro shook his head.

"No: take my advice, my boy, get it back to the post office and send it on in the next bag."

Dempster was disappointed, but the older man converted him to his way of thinking.

"All right, my lord; I'm sure your advice is the soundest," he said.

"Here is your subscription card and my cheque." Felboro called him back to give him these necessary articles of evidence. "If anybody ever wants to know why you came here that was the reason—you understand?"

"Yes, my lord," said Dempster.

Felboro saw him off the premises, then walked up to his bedroom, locked the door, and, pulling out the two necklets, laid them on his dressing-table. They winked and glittered brilliantly in the light of the overhead lamps.

"You're beauties," he murmured, "but I've got to get rid of you without delay."

He had a small box all ready, and he packed away the gems in cotton wool, wrapped them up and, going into his dressing-room, found a piece of tape; returning, he tied up the package and sealed it. With this in his pocket he made his way to Tasker's house, and found that admirable man in such a state of terror that he was on the point of collapse.

He laid the package on the table and Sir Charles fingered it fearfully—he asked that it should he opened.

"I want to see what I'm sending," he said.

With a curse his lordship cut the tapes and took out the cardboard box. As he lifted the top layer of cotton wool, he sneered:

"Did you think I was double-crossing you?"

And then he stopped. The box was empty—empty save for a card on which was printed a coronet and the word "Nowhere!"

* * * * *

"A curious incident has occupied the attention of Scotland Yard," said the Daily Megaphone. "A registered package containing jewels of considerable value, forwarded to the capital of Rugaria, failed to arrive. Inquiries were telegraphed to London, and whilst the post office officials were investigating the matter, another wire came from Rugaria saying that the jewellery had arrived but in a different package. Inside the case which held them was a slip of paper inscribed: 'With the Compliments of the Earl of Nowhere.'"</story>