<story title="BATTLE LEVEL" date="1916">
DALBERRY came down the broad and ornate stairway slowly, pulling on his gloves.

The man waiting at the foot of the stairs, gripping convulsively at the wooden pillar, watched the descending figure pleadingly.

"How—is she—all right?" he croaked. "What... how... is she?"

He was a plain man inclined to baldness, and he was unshaven. Never especially attractive, he was now almost grotesque, for his eyes were red with weeping, and perspiration beaded his face.

"How is she?" repeated Grant Dalberry absently. "Oh, she's all right."

"All right?"

The man grasped his sleeve.

"Are you sure... all right? She will live?"

Mr. Dalberry brought his mind back to the moment.

"Live? Of course she'll live, my dear Mr. Goldberg," he smiled "It wasn't much of an operation, you know. I wonder you did not get your own doctor to do it; it was hardly a case for a surgeon."

"I had to have you, doctor," quavered the other, wiping his face with a hand that trembled and set the fire dancing on the big ring on his finger. "It was... my wife. They told me you were the best man in London. They call you 'Mister,' don't they, not 'Doctor'? That's always a high-class sign.... My God, I am thankful!"

He shook the other's hand vigorously. His palm was moist and unpleasant, his tears were unrestrained, and affected Grant Dalberry uncomfortably.

He surveyed his host with a curious, searching look. Here was a man, coarse, illiterate, rather impossible from the doctor's fastidious standpoint, hard as nails, yet all broken up by his love for the stout, middle-aged woman who had been recently under the surgeon's hand.

The divinity of love ennobled this commonplace Hebrew diamond merchant, softened his hard corners, and gave to him a strange dignity.

"Wait—wait, doctor!"

Goldberg waddled into his garish parlour, and came back with a little blue leather case.

"You've been very kind to me.... Rachel says you've got the patience of an angel.... This is something... for your wife, if you'll excuse the liberty."

He opened the case under the eyes of the protesting Dalberry.

"I won't take no, sir—I won't indeed! It's nothin'—a few stones, but pretty..."

The case held a beautiful diamond pendant.

"My dear good fellow," laughed Dalberry, and pressed the case back into the other's refusing hand, "I appreciate your kindness, but really I've done nothing—and what little I have done, I shall charge you for—and precious heavily!"

But the little man insisted. He followed the doctor to his car, and for five minutes Endesleigh Gardens was edified by the spectacle of a bare- headed and voluble gentleman in a velvet coat engaged in a strenuous argument with a man who looked twenty-five when he smiled.

"They're worth £500," said Dalberry, "and I couldn't think of taking them."

For all his evident amusement he was a little annoyed, since the argument had attracted a small audience. There were the inevitable two small boys all agape, and an unpromising and seedy young man with a crooked nose. It was like Dalberry to notice the crooked nose.

"See here, Mr. Goldberg," he said at last, to end a situation which was fast becoming ridiculous, "I'll take this beautiful thing home and show my wife, and I will let you know to-morrow whether she will accept it."

This was an easy way out. Margaret would as soon think of spending a week-end with this impossible merchant's family as accepting his gifts.

He thought of Goldberg all the way back to his flat. Here at any rate was a man happily married, devoted to his wife though he was childless. Yet this did not seem to have diminished the affection and faith these two unprepossessing people had in one another. He had read aright the terror in the man's eyes at the very prospect of losing the woman who filled his sphere. Dalberry smiled, but it was not a pleasant smile.

The Goldbergs had been fortunate. They were fore-ordained one for the other. As for Grant Dalberry, he had forced his fate, had conducted a tempestuous wooing, and had carried Margaret Massingham off her feet before he or she had realised that they were people of two Worlds, lived and thought two lives, and were possessed of no common interest.

Margaret was a creature of the field, the open air, the countryside. She was at home on the links, was happiest following hounds, and both hated and feared (as a healthy person must) the profession which her husband followed. She never came to his study; his white sterilisers with their glass shelves and orderly array of glittering instruments gave her "the creeps," she said. If he talked "shop," she left the room.

She loathed the atmosphere of pain and sorrow which his patients brought to the big house in Devonshire Street, and in time she came to fear him a little also. All the things he liked, she detested. He was physically a lazy man and would not walk a dozen yards if he could find a taxi; he was neat in his attire and methodical; she was careless and had neither method nor system; and there were no children.

Things had gone from bad to worse. The currents of their divergent tastes led them farther and farther apart. There was no question of ideals. In the bigger matters of life, in their consideration of the great themes, they saw eye to eye. But happy marriages are not founded on a common adherence to grand principles. Two people in complete agreement that it is wrong to murder, iniquitous to commit adultery, and contemptible to engage in swindling practices, may find cause for much unhappiness in the clash of their views on house management.

Grant Dalberry passed up to his study, entered the particulars of the operation he had just performed in his case-book, and, pulling up an arm-chair to the fire, reached for his pipe and tobacco-jar.

Margaret was out, but presently he heard her voice in the corridor, and, remembering the jewel in his pocket, rose and went in search of her. She was in her sitting-room, and he knocked at the door.

She looked at him suspiciously as he entered the room. That was the maddening attitude she had adopted for nearly a year.

They had grown to the point where they were both a little stiff and unnatural in one another's company, and it was a lame narrative he had to relate, the more so since he was endeavouring all the time to tell her of Mr. Goldberg's gift without dwelling upon the nature of the service which he had rendered to Mr. Goldberg's wife.

"I could not think of accepting such a present," she said decisively.

She looked at the stones glittering on their background of blue velvet.

"It is very beautiful, of course, but—ugh!"

She shuddered and handed back the case.

"Why 'ugh'?" he asked wilfully.

He was in that perverse mood which comes to angry men when they find pleasure in inviting further irritation.

She made a weary gesture.

"My dear boy—let us talk about something else: I haven't very long, because I've to dress for Lady Callifar's dinner. You know very well why I shuddered. There are many reasons why I couldn't accept such a present, and one very good reason why I couldn't wear it. Do you think I should ever get out of my mind the manner in which it was earned?"

He left the room without another word and dined at his club, and in the course of the dinner and the cigar which followed with the coffee he came to a decision.

She hated town, he knew. If she had her way, she would not spend one week in the year in London. She had tried her best to hide the martyrdom of living with him; she should be a martyr no more.

He returned to Devonshire Street a little before his wife reached home, and surprised her by walking into her room almost on her heels.

She was in the act of closing the long french windows leading on to the balcony as he entered, and his professional instinct overcame his natural desire to plunge into the subject nearest his heart.

"You ought not to let the temperature of your room fall," he said. "There is plenty of ventilation, and on a chilly night like this——"

"I did not leave it open," she said. "Jackson must have forgotten to close it. Do you want to see me?"

He nodded.

She sat down, folding her hands meekly on her lap.

"For Heaven's sake, Margaret, do not act the patient Griselda!" he said roughly.

"What would you like me to do?" she said, a faint flush of anger tinting her cheeks.

She was a beautiful girl, with fine, scornful eyes, a firm chin, and a mouth just a little too resolute. Yet there was in her a gracious femininity which was especially appealing, and doubly appealed at this moment to the hungry heart of her husband.

"I want you to listen," he said quietly, "and take what I have to say as complimentary to yourself. Madge, you and I aren't a pair. I'm a difficult sort of man, ten years your senior, and I'm in a profession which makes me a little hateful to you. We are all wrong, and time isn't setting us right. So——"

"So?" she repeated when he paused.

There was no need to ask the question for she divined his meaning, and, to her astonishment, divined it with a panic sense of dismay and a constricted feeling at her heart.

"I think you and I had better part," he said gently. "I'm not the man for you. I am fussy; I am lazy. I hate the outdoor life. I loathe walking and riding. In fact, I'm a slug."

He found no reflection of his smile in her face.

"And I hate medicines and knives and things" she said, and shivered again. "I can't help it, Grant: I'm just born like that. I hate suffering and misery and would sooner die than see an operation."

He nodded.

"You can have Hill Crest and your allowance, of course," he said, "and nobody——"

His eyes had wandered for a fraction of a second toward the door of her dressing-room. It stood ajar, but the window and the door of the room in which he stood were closed, and there was little or no wind. In these circumstances it was, to say the least, remarkable that the door had moved ever so slightly. She looked at him in perplexity.

"Why did you stop?" she asked.

He did not reply. Striding quickly across tile floor, he pushed open the door of her dressing-room, reached in his hand, and switched on the light. Then he entered the room.

There was a man in the room, a man poorly dressed and at that moment in further embarrassment than his poverty caused him. Grant noticed the tell- tale jemmy on the dressing-table, but noted sooner the crooked nose of the burglar.

"It's all right, boss," said the delinquent. "It's a cop, an' I'll go quietly."

"I remember," nodded Grant; "you were after the pendant?"

The man nodded.

"This will mean two years for me," reflected the burglar philosophically, "but I'd sooner do five than have to listen to the junk you an' your missus have been talkin'!"

And Mr. Grant Dalberry felt remarkably uncomfortable.

Two years after this domestic comedy there was a great discussion in C 96.

It arose between a young man lately of the University of Oxford and another young man who, a few days before the declaration of war, had found a job driving an ice-waggon for the admirable Messrs. Fratti, and since the argument was on the subject of Italy, it was only natural that the honours of the night rested with the erstwhile servant of the greatest ice-cream merchant in London.

The two young men were spearing sardines out of a tin, and they were both very dirty. They wore soiled khaki clothing and great shapeless comforters about their necks, and though their conversation was carried on in whispers it was not regarded as private. They whispered because the enemy trenches were only one hundred yards away, and the enemy had a listening-post even closer. From Italy the discussion veered round to military systems and to conscription. The Oxford student did not quote Plato, because he was a nice boy and would not take a mean advantage, but the ex-driver of ice-waggons, having no such fine feelings, did quote (inaccurately) certain Socialist converts to Militarism.

The main conclusions which the argument produced were that it takes a lot of men to make an army, and that war is a leveller of classes.

"Look at me," said the driver proudly. "You wouldn't have spoken to me a year ago. Do you mean to tell me that you'd have got out of your bloomin' motor car——"

"I haven't a motor-car, but don't let that spoil your argument," said the student.

"Well, out of your carriage," insisted the other, desiring, after the manner of all great controversialists, to paint his contrasts in the most vivid colours.

"Make it a bicycle," begged the other.

"Do you mean to tell me that you'd have given me the glad hand, 'Orace?"

Horace (it was not his name) grinned. "Who knows?" he said diplomatically.

"War's brought us all to a level," whispered the driver fiercely. "It's made a man of me an' a man of you, me lad. A year ago—why, a year ago the likes of you would have despised me—you'd have spat at me."

"I don't spit," said the student wearily. "Pass the sardines, Henry."

But the other was too full of his thesis to accept the hint.

"It knocks the fads——"

"Silence!"

It was the sharp voice of the company commander.

The night was very still save for the "klik-klock" of an occasional rifle shot.

Far away to the right came a tremble of sound—a doleful "clong-clong-clong!" The warning was unmistakable. Somebody was hammering vigorously on a suspended brass cartridge case.

"That's gas," said the officer to his subordinate. "It can't be a general gas attack——"

He peered through the sentry's peephole.

Ahead lay the dark outline of the little rise between the two enemy trenches. It was a night of stars, and there was sufficient light to see what he was seeking.

For a while he saw nothing, and then over the rise there loomed a ghostly mist.

He swung round and hammered at the gong by his side.

"Masks!" he roared. "Stand to!"

A shower of heavy objects fell into the trench and exploded.

"Here they come!" yelled the officer.

"They" came a thousand strong behind the gas—a mass of grey figures with a rush.

The masks at the parapets glared devilishly toward the attacking host; somewhere on the left a machine-gun battery came into action, and a wounded artillery observer, crouching at the bottom of the trench with his lips glued to a telephone receiver, said confidentially:

"Square C 38—drum fire... the beggars are in the open, and you'll get 'em beautifully, Clarence."

Clarence (whose name was John) growled an order over his shoulder, and two batteries began to drip shrapnel over the venturesome thousand.

* * * * *

"My argument is," said the ex-driver faintly, "that there's nothin' like war for givin'... oh, Lord!"

They were getting him along the communication trench, and the way was rough and the angles very acute, and naturally the stretcher handles were for ever digging into the clayey sides.

"There ain't no collectin' station," said a cheerful individual at their journey's end.

"Why?" asked the bearers resentfully.

"Because it's crumped," responded the informative private triumphantly. "Hit by a bloomin' coal-box, an' the 'ole outfit straffed."

"Do you mean to tell me," said the indignant leader of Number 1 stretcher, "that there ain't a doctor for these pore perishers?"

"That's right," replied the other.

Somebody came out of the darkness.

"Are these surgical cases?" he asked in a tone of authority.

"Yes, sir," said half a dozen voices.

"The collecting station has been destroyed, hasn't it?"

"Yes, sir," said the guide, with reluctant admiration for the enemy's marksmanship, "properly straffed."

"I heard of it and came over," said the stranger. "I have a motor- ambulance on the road. How many are there?"

There were three cases, and they had all received first-aid before they left the trench. There was a sort of hospital on the Arras road, said the ambulance chauffeur. It was nearer than the base hospital. He was half-way to this sort of hospital when he remembered that he had heard it was to be dismantled as being within range of the heavy guns.

He pulled up at the dark building and bustled off to make inquiries and to provide himself with any excuses that might be necessary. Presently he came back to the surgeon who, crouched in an uncomfortable position, was rebandaging one of the wounded men by the light of a pocket lamp.

It's all right, sir," said the chauffeur in a tone of relief. "The hospital's gone, but there's a nurse in charge and plenty of stores."

He assisted to carry the wounded men into the big hall—it had once been a village school. The providential nurse had lit an oil lamp, had pulled a long table to beneath it, and was covering the table-top with a water-proof sheet, for nurses do not require instructions in such things.

"Plenty of chloroform, sister?" asked the surgeon, slipping off his coat.

"Yes, doctor. The last of the stores do not go until tomorrow, and I was left in charge."

Chauffeur and doctor laid the first of the patients on the table. The nurse disappeared, and came back with towels, dressing-tray, and basins. By the time she had drawn hot water from the big kettle on the still glowing fire in the rear kitchen the surgeon was ready for her.

"Now," he said, "I think we'll——"

He stared across the table.

"Margaret!" he gasped.

She was smiling.

"I knew your voice at once," she said, and took him in with one long and approving glance.

His shirt was stained and torn. He had a day's growth of beard, and he was lean with much physical exercise.

He looked at her in comic despair.

"I say..." he stammered, "this is a little operation, you know.... I shall want you to give him an anæsthetic... you won't like it..."

"Don't be absurd," she scoffed. "Will you use your own instruments or will you use ours? We have some awfully dinky ones!"

* * * * *

The third sufferer was on the table and was talkative.

"War," he said vaguely and weakly, "is grand... Suppose you met me a year ago..."

"Give him a whiff or two," said Grant, and straightened his aching back whilst the girl dropped the sickly-smelling anæsthetic on the flannel cone.

"It's rum," Grant went on—he always talked as he worked——" here am I living the very life that I thought I should hate—doing my ten and fifteen miles a day—and here are you.... Lord, it is queer!"

She said nothing, watching in wonder and admiration the master-hand in its skilful application.

"I've never seen anybody as clever as you," she said.

"Flatterer," said Grant, without looking up.

"You are wonderful, you know. I've seen big things done in surgery, but you're just—wonderful."

"That will do," he said, signifying rather his satisfaction with his work than an admonishment. "Wake up, Tommy."

He pinched the cheek of the patient, who began to talk drowsily.

"Do you remember that night... the burglar with the crooked nose—he got six months, by the way—he was a rotten prophet," he chuckled... "and how we talked! You hated medicines like the devil."

"And you were a slug!" she said quickly. "Don't forget that!"

He was polishing the instrument he had used, and laughed.

"You said you would rather die than witness an operation."

"And you said——"

"At it again!"

The man on the table was speaking, half sanely, half in the haze of delirium.

"At it again—still talkin' junk about what she don't like an' what you don't like... you ought to go to war, you ought... made a human bein' of me..."

He subsided into an incoherent mutter of sound.

Grant looked down at the half-conscious patient. His nose was distinctly crooked.

"It has made human beings of us all," he said, passing round the table to the girl.

He kissed her, and she put her arms tightly about his neck and held his face to hers for quite a long time.</story>