<story title="MR. JIGGS MAKES GOOD" date="1930">
MR. DENNY, of Lansfield, Hampshire, was impressed by riches. Men who talked in millions could hold him spellbound, though he himself had thought in millions all his life. If he had dared ...

There had been so many opportunities. The rubber boom, the steel boom, the American boom, even the faraway South African boom, and he had missed them all.

He was a tall, gaunt, forbidding man, and you might not suspect there was romance in his bosom, or that he was a dreamer who spent hours at his desk building up colossal fortunes, buying shipping lines and mining concessions, creating new systems of finance, piling billion on billion, and never quite knowing what to do with the monies when he had got them into the bank.

At the same time he never overstepped the boundaries which separate permissible extravagance of thought from that uncontrolled exercise of imagination which leads men to imagine they are Julius Caesar to the great amusement of the mental patients. He administered the little estate which brought him in twelve hundred pounds a year, and by careful saving and striving he was enabled to make a yearly trip to America.

It was here, in the vestibule of the Grand Foible Hotel, he had met Edward Castlemaine, and renewed and amplified the acquaintance later between New York and Cherbourg. Edward Castlemaine was young, virile, quick-witted, with an eye for beauty and opportunity.

He paid one visit to the little estate on the Hampshire coast, met Margaret Denny, took, as he admitted, the k.o. from her loveliness, courted her boldly and, to her, in a strange language, and half fascinated her. The other half might have made her surrender if it had not been for what Mr. Denny, a man given to cliches, referred to as an “earlier attachment”. The half dwindled to a quarter and less. By the time she wore Mr. Castlemaine’s solitaire on her finger the earlier attachment met her when she came back from London after the engagement, and there was rather a tense little scene on the lawn that sloped down to the sandy beach. She was in tears before the interview had gone five minutes.

“I know it’s beastly of me, Jimmy, but daddy is so keen on it. He’s very rich, and he really is nice. And, Jimmy, you’re not going to be too dreadful, are you?”

He shook his head. He was a very wholesome young man, who farmed a hundred and fifty acres near by, not because he was a farmer, but because a well-meaning relative had presented him with the farm.

“He may be very charming, but he doesn’t look so to me—I’ve lived in America some time, and I know, as your father doesn’t know, the difference between an educated and an uneducated American. They’ve all got an accent which sounds odd to English ears, and Boston and the East Side sound very much alike.”

There was a long and rather painful silence.

“He has got money,” she said at last.

He nodded.

“Yes, he’s fairly well off, has a suite at the Ritz-Carlton—no—I haven’t been spying on him, I just happen to know. I saw you at supper there the other night and I wanted to kill him!”

Suddenly he held out his hand.

“We shan’t see each other again,” he said, and was gone before she could remember all the things she intended saying. She said them the next day, when they met on the beach road.

They did not see each other again for quite a long time. It was three days before Christmas when Margaret made her decision, and, interrupting a gigantic steel merger that he was planning, walked into the study of her .father, closed the door behind her, and spoke a little breathlessly, more than a little fearfully. Mr. Denny was a terrifying parent.

“Nonsense! Rubbish!” he snapped. “He’s coming back for Christmas; you’ll be married on the twenty-eighth. Your trousseau’s ordered, practically everything is settled, and Lawson’s coming down to-morrow with the ante-nuptial contract. Don’t argue, Margaret; I won’t discuss it.”

She had a different view, but he silenced her. “This man,” he said impressively, “is giving up his business in America, living in Europe, and you’ll have a wonderful time.”

“But I don’t love him,” she said.

“Love!” said Mr. Denny, and he told her what love was. She gathered that it was made up of equal parts of stuff and nonsense.

“You have his engagement ring,” he added with a lofty wave of his hand, for he was given to gestures which erred on the side of theatricality.

He was very much impressed by Mr. Castlemaine, and had had a letter that very morning announcing that his future son-in-law would be with him in a few days. More to the point, there was a very handsome draft on the Bankers’ Trust Company, to be expended on the trousseau. Mr. Castlemaine did not use exactly that expression; what he said was:

“Tell the little girl to burn it up.”

That evening she took counsel with an attachment which was no longer earlier, but very present. And she was full of frantic and panic schemes, which began with the perfectly novel idea of running away with the man she loved, and ended, after many arguments and discussions of ways and means, in variations of the same interesting scheme.

“It is going to be perfectly ghastly,” she said, with a little catch in her voice. Daddy’s inviting everybody to the house for Christmas Day. He has remembered that he hasn’t announced the engagement!”

Mr. Castlemaine was all for Christmas and the spirit of Christmas. He was a man with a certain genius for organization, and he had sat himself down in his handsome apartment on Riverside Drive and had elaborated a programme of festivities. The thought of Christmas in old-world surroundings brought a lump to his throat, for at the moment peace and security were as balm to his soul.

He had genuinely “fallen” for Margaret Denny; carried her photograph in his pocket-book; showed it to friends who if they failed to reach the right kind of ecstasy were liable to a slug in the jaw without preliminaries, and worse. Knowing this, they were ecstatic.

He was shaking the dust of the United States from his feet for ever, and saw himself, a veritable squire, wearing clothes appropriate to the position, living a calm, sweet life into which no rackets entered.

Margaret was to be one of the properties of serenity. He wrote to her by every mail, very brief, businesslike letters, and quite inoffensive, for he realized you couldn’t get raw with that kind of dame.

It was a curious fact that nobody in the United States called him Mr. Castlemaine; that is to say, nobody except the staff of the big hotel where Mr. Denny had met him. When he travelled, he was referred to as Mr. Castlemaine, but that happened to be one of his given names, for he had been christened and registered “Edward Castlemaine Haran”.

Louis Capisti came down from Detroit and met a few choice friends in his apartment.

“Ed Haran is taking a powder on this outfit,” he said. “There’s a woman in London he’s going to marry.”

“He’s coming back in January—“ began one.

“Forget it!”

Capisti and Haran were armed partners, bound together in the mutual bonds of distrust. Their business was a complicated one, and booze-running was only part of it. There were certain partnerships in other and less pleasant enterprises, and when Ed sold out to Capisti he did so with the promise that he and his gang would help to make it a success.

“What I ain’t done for that guy!” said Capisti. “Joe Sandis would have bumped him off years ago if it hadn’t been for me—hey?”

Joe Sandis was no friend of the Capistis and Harans. The three gangs had waged perpetual war before the frontiers of their territories had been delimitated.

“Joe would give a million dollars to know what we know,” said Capisti, and they looked at each other.

Joe Sandis, the big Pole, would not have given a million dollars, or half a million dollars, for any kind of information, but he received with every evidence of satisfaction the scrawled note that came to him by mail, for Ed owed him four good men, killed in the execution of their duty, and one personal lieutenant who had been taken for a ride and whose body had been found huddled in a taxicab outside the city limits—and Ed Haran had the credit for the accomplishment.

This particular lieutenant had a brother; a stout, good-natured man, who looked like a commercial traveller. He was a professional killer, received a hundred dollars a week for bodyguard and general gang work, and gave no offence to anybody except the people he slew. He guarded liquor in transport, had his part cold-bloodedly in gang fights, had taken a couple of cracks at policemen, and had been twice tried, and twice acquitted, on murder charges.

A broad, red-faced man, with sandy hair, a twinkle in his eye, a man of no particular imagination, abstemious, a lover of fun, completely reliable—this was Jiggs Hennessey.

He came in obedience to the summons, sat on the edge of a chair, twirling his derby nervously, and listened to the big chief. Joe wasted no time in preliminaries.

“You remember the stiff who bumped your brother, Jiggs?”

Jiggs nodded and grinned.

“Sure—Ed?”

“Ed Haran,” confirmed Joe. “He’s leaving by the Melantic. You been to Europe——?”

“Sure,” said Jiggs, a man of few words.

“I’ve got all your transportation booked. You travel second-class. He travels first. Don’t let him see you or he’ll know you. If he gets on”—he emphasized the ‘if’—”you get him—hey?”

“Sure,” said Jiggs.

“Maybe he won’t make the boat. Then you go off to Europe for a little trip, hey? Maybe we’ll get him. You just lay quiet, get busy at night, keep out of sight all day. He bumped your brother, Jiggs—didn’t give him a break.”

“Sure,” said Jiggs.

“If you get into a jam, jump ashore at Cherbourg. Here’s the address of a feller in that dump who’ll treat you right.”

“O.K.,” said Jiggs.

They handed him his transportation tickets and two thousand dollars, and Jiggs went home, packed two automatics and a blackjack, and in due course presented himself to the second-class steward and was shown his cabin.

Jiggs knew Ed pretty well; he knew Joe better, and was a little surprised, the first night out, when he saw Ed with two of his familiars, and dressed like a million dollars, pacing the first-class promenade deck. In a sense he felt a mild grievance against his employer. What looked like a pleasant trip was going to be a business after all.

He spent his days in bed, his nights in judicious reconnaissance. The first error he discovered, and rectified, was being a second-class passenger. There are certain restrictions which prevent a traveller in this class from exploring the holies of the superior accommodation. He saw the purser very early one morning, before Ed was up, and got himself transferred to the saloon.

He was a unique traveller in that he still had his meals in the second-class saloon, but the chief steward diagnosed this as an inferiority complex and saw nothing remarkable in the circumstance.

Otherwise, luck was against him. The boat ran into bad weather, and most of the passengers kept to their cabins, and the promenade deck at night was deserted. He had hoped Ed would come up for air, and, wrapped in a heavy ulster, he sat in a deck-chair on the darkest part of the deck waiting for miracles to happen. He had located Ed’s suite—he had a stateroom and a private sitting-room. The difficulty was the guard. The two men who were shepherding Ed to Europe never left him.

The boat reached Cherbourg late one night with nothing done. Jiggs was uneasy. A killing on the high seas could be expeditiously arranged. If he could get into Ed’s cabin and use his blackjack the thing would be easy. There were big let-down windows in the sitting-room through which a man could be pushed. But a killing in English waters, and within the operations of a law which hangs for murder ... that was different.

Whether he stood on the trap or made a getaway, this much was certain: he had been sent to get Ed, and he would get him if he hanged for it.

The boat left Cherbourg late at night, and went slowly across the Channel and passed more slowly up the Solent towards Southampton. About three o’clock in the morning he saw the two guards go up to the smoke-room. Ed was alone—it was his opportunity.

He slipped down to E deck. The alleyway was empty, and, pushing open the door of Ed’s cabin, he walked boldly in. The room was in darkness. He was reaching for the switch when something hit him. There was no pain; only he suddenly lost grip and went down to his feet.

“Bolt that door!”

The light was switched on. He looked up into the smiling face of Ed Haran, and with him, miraculously enough, were the two guards. They must have gone into the smoke-room, crossed to the other side of the boat and got back to the cabin before he had reached the deck.

“We’ve been waiting for you, Jiggs. Knew you were on the boat—one of your crowd tipped us off.”

He stooped, picked up the gun which Jiggs had let fall, and threw it on the bed.

“You’re going to make a whole lot of trouble for me, son, and I hate trouble.”

He nodded to one of the men with him, who grinned, put a brass handle into an opening below the window and turned till the glass was level with the sash. A cold wind blew in, but Jiggs did not feel it. Something wet was running down the side of his face; he was momentarily out.

The three men stooped and pulled him to his feet. He could not resist. His face scraped against the sash of the window, then his shoulder. He saw, dimly, the flicker of shore lights, then he felt himself dropping, dropping... Bitter coldness enveloped him, and he struck out mechanically.

* * * * *

MR. DENNY had one extravagance: a small speedboat. He would not have enjoyed even that, but that he mentioned to Mr. Castlemaine, on his last visit to England, that he wished he possessed such a luxury, and forthwith the speed-boat had appeared; and it had cost Mr. Denny the greater part of a hundred pounds to build a shed on the lawn’s edge for its accommodation, and to lay down rollers that would carry it to the beach and, at high tide, the water.

Being of an economical turn of mind, he had put this new structure to two uses: the shoreward half was a greenhouse, through which one passed to the boathouse proper. It was Margaret’s habit to go down early in the morning and collect’” such few blooms as were available for table decorations.

She came down a little earlier than usual, unlocked the greenhouse door, stepped in and stopped, paralysed with fear and astonishment; for, sitting on the concrete floor, his back to the closed door leading into the boathouse, was a man.

“It’s O.K., missie.”

His broad smile reassured her. He seemed well dressed, so far as a man can be well dressed in a sodden silk shirt and trousers which, though wet through, still showed a gentlemanly crease.

“What do you want?” she asked breathlessly.

“Fell overboard—swam ashore.”

She looked at him, her mouth and eyes wide open.

“Fell overboard? From a ship?”

He nodded and got up to his feet.

“How wide’s this sound?”

He was peering through the glass at the distant shore of the Isle of Wight.

“I don’t know—ten miles perhaps.”

“I thought it was a hundred; I’ve been swimming all night.”

There was an ugly-looking bump on the side of his head. He tapped this gingerly.

“Must have hit the ship,” he said cheerfully.

“Are you a sailor?”

He considered this.

“No, I’m a passenger. That’s the whole trouble, miss. My passport and transportation tickets are in my baggage.”

He told a story, a plausible, rather beautiful story, of how his wife had run away from him and had come to England, and how he was following her to persuade her to return to their little home in Baltimore for the sake of the child. He described the child, and tears came into his eyes as he enlarged upon her beauty.

“She ain’t strong, miss, and that’s a fact. It’s her I’m thinking of more than me....”

Not without profit had Jiggs been for two years associated with a con. gang.

Margaret listened, sympathizing, and, departing to the house, obtained a change of clothing, which, with the aid of a pair of scissors, and leaving certain buttons unfastened, he eventually made to fit.

She became his ally. The great point was that nobody must know he had arrived. There was to be no fuss, no bother. If he were found without a passport he would be turned back, probably charged before a judge, and the whole object of his visit to England would be ruined.

She got on the ‘phone to her earlier attachment and enlisted his help. Jiggs was driven to the farmhouse and politely received by a young man who had no reason to love America or its citizens. Here he was more suitably attired, for the young farmer employed men of greater girth than himself.

But the farmer was less gullible, and, recognizing a good scout, Jiggs told quite a lot of the truth. That he might not hurt the girl who had befriended him, he maintained the legend of the runaway wife and the golden-haired daughter who called incessantly for “mammie.“

“Threw you overboard?” said the girl incredulously.

He nodded.

“Sure. Ed’s that kind. Say, that baby shot up a whole family once.”

“But why did you go into his cabin?” asked the girl suspiciously.

“I wanted him and me to part friends,” said Jiggs. “Says I to meself: ‘I’ll go and see that guy....’”

She considered the matter from the new angle.

“Perhaps Mr. Castlemaine could help you. He’ll be here to-morrow.”

“Mr...?”

Not a muscle of the American’s face moved.

“Mr. Castlemaine. He’s an American gentleman a friend of my father’s.”

“Is that so?” asked Jiggs thoughtfully. “Coming here!”

She sighed heavily, and Jiggs, who understood human nature and lived on it, began to speculate rapidly.

“Excuse me, miss; you ain’t going to marry him or anything, are you?”

The colour in her face told him something; she told him the rest.

“No—I was engaged to Mr. Castlemaine. Do you know him?”

“I’ve heard of him. He’s a big guy on the stock market, ain’t he?”

She wasn’t sure about this.

“A tall fellow about forty, I guess?” suggested Jiggs.

She told him exactly how old he was and how he appeared. Jiggs, who could have supplied certain photographic details, shook his head.

“I don’t know him. If I was you I wouldn’t say anything, miss. Maybe he’s one of that four hundred bunch, and they wouldn’t like you knowing a feller like me.

He looked from the man to the girl, and did some quick but accurate guessing.

“When is the wedding, miss?”

“There isn’t going to be a wedding,” she said quickly, and then realized that she was being a little undignified in discussing this matter with a shipwrecked sailor.

She talked to the young man about the Christmas festivities, sketched out the programme, and Jim listened without appearing to listen. Father Christmas was coming from town: a gentleman from the stores who could look magnificent as St. Nicholas and could perform conjuring tricks and give impersonations of famous people at an inclusive fee.

She had a little private talk with the young man and outlined her own programme, which was both romantic and exciting.

He had a residential qualification in Marylebone, maintained a small flat which he let furnished when he was in the country, and on the strength of this qualification had secured the necessary special marriage licence. They would leave on the evening following Christmas Day, and the earlier attachment would become permanent.

Jiggs knew nothing of this. He spent the day inspecting the farm. That night he borrowed the flivver and drove to the vicinity of Mr. Denny’s house, and in the darkness of the night examined the speed-boat.

The next morning came the radiant Mr. Castlemaine, very boisterous, a little less cautious in his speech and his conduct, slapping Mr. Denny on the back and talking in millions. He was exhilarated, as he was entitled to be, for he was a very rich man, he was young, and he was going to be a squire. His agent had already paid a deposit on the Newland property.

He had brought presents, marvellous presents for the guests, little diamond brooches, trinkets of considerable value. Mr. Castlemaine believed in advance publicity.

Christmas morning was spent by Margaret in writing names on the tops of the little cardboard boxes in which the trinkets were disposed. She felt very guilty, almost as though she were a thief. The recipients of these presents would accept them under false pretences. But even this was less trying than Mr. Castlemaine’s increasing tenderness. She prayed for the day to pass.

“This St. Nicholas baby is O.K., I suppose? There’s five thousand dollars’ worth of presents in that basket.”

Mr. Denny explained that Father Christmas would arrive, made up, in a closed car, and would be met by himself and taken through the french windows into the study. The study opened into the big dining-room, and would be used as a dressing-room, where the Spirit of Christmas would change his clothes and become the Spirit of Mystery, or, alternately, the Spirit of Impersonation. Father Christmas himself would be staying at the “Red Lion” at Chelsford, had already arrived and had enquired, querulously and a little thickly, about the conveyance that was to carry him to the place of entertainment.

He was a man who drank a little, but knew just when he had had enough. He told everybody this. He spent Christmas day drinking enough with a gentlemanly American he met by chance.

The jazz band came by char-a-banc from Southampton. It was, Mr. Castlemaine apologized to the guests, a bum band, but the best he could get. He said this in front of the orchestra, and they were amused, thinking he was facetious.

Nearly two hundred guests assembled that night. They came in limousines and in cars which could by no stretch of imagination be described as limousines; they turned bedrooms into cloakrooms, filled the house with deafening chatter, such interstices of silence as were left being filled with saxophonic disharmony distributed by the Blue Hungarian Jazz Band.

“It’s dreadful, isn’t it?” Margaret found time to speak to the earlier attachment.

“He’s dreadful,” said the young man savagely. “If he paws you again I’m going “

“You’re going to do nothing of the kind; you’re going to be very patient and long-suffering. Where’s my shipwrecked sailor?”

“He’s gone up to town. He sent a most elaborate message to you which I didn’t quite understand. Apparently he’s been on the ‘phone to his wife; and went into Chelsford this afternoon and ‘phoned to her, and they’re reconciled. I lent him my Ford to take him to Chelsford.”

Mr. Denny elbowed his way to her side. The earlier attachment he ignored.

“Into the dining-room, my dear, into the dining-room,” he said testily. “The presents are to be given.”

“Has he arrived?”

He did not answer, but took her by the arm and half dragged her through the press.

Father Christmas had indeed arrived. He had descended from the car Mr. Denny had sent for him, had been received by Mr. Denny himself, and led into the study. He was a jovial man with a white beard plentifully sprinkled with Epsom salts. His robe was red, the eyes that sparkled behind the frost-glittering glasses were humorous and kind.

Briefly Denny explained the routine. A great basket, decorated with holly and fluffy cotton-wool, was to be carried through the folding-doors into the dining-room at a signal—three loud taps on the panel. As he was explaining, Mr. Castlemaine came in and added his own instructions in his own picturesque and forceful language. Father Christmas listened and beamed.

“I’ll stay with this bird,” said Mr. Castlemaine as he led his host out of the range of the saint’s large ears. “I don’t trust nobody, see?”

He was flushed, excited; he had drunk wine. His back-slapping had gained in force and frequency. He slapped Mr. Denny out of the room, then came back to the scarlet-clad figure.

He had to talk loudly because the band was justifying its cost.

“Now, listen—“

A hand shot out and gripped him between the collar of his shirt and his throat. A black-muzzled automatic covered his middle.

“Come outside, honey!” said Father Christmas.

“Like hell I will!”

The crash of a trap-drummer covered the three shots. Father Christmas caught his man as he sagged towards him, stooped, lifted him over his shoulder and walked out into the night. Jiggs was a strong man, and could even run across the lawn with his heavy burden.

He dropped the dead man with a crash into the bottom of the speed-boat, and with a push drove it down into the water. The band was still playing; nobody heard the staccato explosions of the engine as it started.

He wondered if the real Father Christmas, whom he had left unconscious in his room at the “Red Lion”, would have to pay for the glad clothes he was wearing and which would soon be bundled into the sea.

Stooping, he relieved the late Mr. Castlemaine of all his portable property and stuffed it into his own pockets.

It was crazy of a man to carry all that money, anyway.

Not till he was well out to sea and had left the Needles astern did Jiggs lift his victim and heave him over the side. Then he looked up at the stars and remembered what day it was.

“Well, well, well!” said Jiggs. “Ain’t this a merry Christmas!”

And he headed his boat full speed for the coast of France.</story>