<story title="THE TRIMMING OF SAM" date="1923">
SOMEBODY saw Long Sam in the smoking-room of the Mauretania the day before she reached Southampton. It was Jake Feld, who worked the liners nine months in the year and ran a little game at Palm Beach for the other three months. And in all the circumstances, and being the possessor of a few rags of conscience, he felt it incumbent upon him to offer a few words of advice.

“Not been over to Europe lately, have you, Sam?”

The tall, lean-faced man took his cigar from his mouth and eyed his questioner thoughtfully.

“Why, no, Jake, I haven’t been over in years,” he said. “But it seems to be Europe’s turn. Anyway, this is a pleasure trip,” he added as an afterthought.

Jake, that wise manipulator of the pasteboards, was not impressed.

“There are certainly pickings, but the game is much more dangerous now than it ever was before. Lee Brown came over with us last trip, and had to borrow money to get his fare back. The London crowd skinned him.”

Long Sam resumed his cigar and puffed away in silence.

“They won’t skin me,” he said complacently. “The diamond ain’t mined that can scratch me. What’s the trouble in Europe, anyway?”

“Everybody’s broke. There’s no money in England, and that’s the only country where money’s real,” said Jake. “The poverty of the sucker class is little short of a national scandal. Even on these boats, the only people you can get money from are the Los Angeles crowd, and they’re gradually going broke too.”

Long Sam had a habit of indulging in extended reveries, and it was a considerable time before he spoke.

“There is an old and a trite saying,” he said slowly, “that one is born every minute. Though I admit they take a long time to grow up. From your point of view, Jake, the outlook is certainly bad, because you only sell one class of goods, which is a line of talk designed to inculcate in the human heart a touching confidence in the honesty of mankind. I run two lines——” Here Jake interrupted him.

“Listen, Sam,” he said quietly, “there’s a girl passenger on her way back to England, who lost over seven hundred pounds in notes the other night, when the concert was on in the saloon. Her cabin is about two from yours.”

Still Jake smoked comfortably.

“Passengers should place their valuables in the care of the purser,” he recited. “There are notices up all over the ship. If you break the rules you pay.”

“Now come across, Sam! You don’t want to rob a kid? It was the money her father left her before he died, and it’s all she’s got in the world.”

“Lend me a handkerchief,” said Sam. “I want to cry! Stories like that always have a bad effect on me. This ship’s full of officers and button-men, whose job it is to look after the passengers, and I guess that when we reach Southampton they’ll be having a few stray bulls or two who’ll be ready to go through the passengers’ kits. Don’t you butt in, Jake, unless you’ve gone over to the police. Judging from the game I saw you sitting in the other night, the great reform movement hasn’t struck you. Maybe I’ll be seeing you at the Boddington; I usually drift in there; and we’ll continue this little talk.”

There was in London a junior reporter whose name was Thomas Henry Minter, who was called by his intimates “Spike”. He had two good qualities—a sense of news value and a sense of humour. His principal drawback, both from his own and from every other standpoint, was his chronic impecuniosity. Spike was paid monthly in advance, and nobody ever knew what he did with his money. Thrifty young sub-editors, with young families, could not understand why Spike was always broke in the middle of the month. Hoary-headed news editors, knowing the salary that Spike received, offered many libellous explanations as to the destination of his salary. Only other young reporters of Fleet Street could offer an accurate explanation. Spike’s money was always bespoke. There was the invariable landlady, the inevitable tailor, the club bills, the little accounts that run up at hosiers, and his season ticket inevitably expired the week when he had least money and least prospect of finding any.

Towards the middle of every month, the finances of Spike became shaky, and in these circumstances he invariably borrowed from the one man in the world who hated lending, even though Spike returned the loan punctiliously on the first of the month.

Gussie Thorpe had been to the same school as Spike, but they lived in different streets. Gussie had a flat in Park Lane and a house in the country. He owned a motorcar for every day of the week and a yacht for Sunday. His father had been a merchant prince, or a captain of industry, or a bloated capitalist, according to the political standpoint from which you viewed it. He had made soap, and he had died rich and respected. And there were stained-glass windows to his memory in a real cathedral.

There was never a moment when Gussie wanted to see Spike.

“I’ve a position to keep up,” he was in the habit of saying to his intimates. “Spike, being a reporter, has no position at all. I know he’s a reporter, though I’ve never seen him report. And I’m always meeting him! That’s the curse of it. Last year at Ascot there was Spike waiting for me outside the Royal Enclosure with a Press ticket on his coat, ordering me to go and find out if the Duke of Menthel’s horse was going to win!”

Gussie was dressing for dinner when the footman arrived, not even with a card, but with the bald announcement that Spike was below.

“Tell him I’m not in, you fool!” hissed Gussie.

“I’ll tell him,” said Spike, entering nonchalantly.

“I wish to heaven you wouldn’t do it, Spike,” said Gussie irritably. “It upsets the servants, dear old thing.”

“What are you dolling yourself up for?”

“I’m going to meet some people,” said Gussie shortly. “And, I say, old boy, don’t come round the day after tomorrow: I shall be away. My cousin’s coming back from America, and she’s a deuced nice girl; and naturally, if she sees me—I mean, if she sees you—I mean, if you’re hanging about——”

“Shurrup!” said Spike vulgarly. “Lend me a fiver till the end of the month, Gussie, and I swear I won’t barge in upon your young romance. What’s she like?”

“She’s beautiful,” said Gussie enthusiastically. “Beautiful blue eyes and hair like old gold. She’s what I would describe as flower-like.”

“Then you’re silly,” said Spike, who was an oracle in such matters, “for there was never a flower that took kindly to a cabbage. Do I understand that this is a serious engagement?”

Gussie smiled complacently.

“Well, the truth is, old man, that at present she’s not frantically keen on me.”

“It’s your face,” said Spike solemnly. “Change your face, then she’ll marry you all right. Naturally the girl wants someone to look at through life.”

“What’s the matter with my face?” demanded Gussie wrathfully.

“I’ve often wondered,” said Spike, and held out his hand. “Lend me a fiver till Saturday night.”

“I’m sorry, old thing. I’ve only got a pound in my pocket.”

“I’ll take it,” said Spike, who never let an opportunity get past without braining it.

He wanted that pound very badly. There were certain little loans that had to be discharged, and he came to the office the next day almost as impecunious as he had been when he left it on the previous evening. He had hardly got into the reporters’ room before the news editor sent for him.

“Spike,” said that worthy, “I’ve got a really good story for you, but you’ll need to use all your tact and judgment and good sense.”

“What is more important than a good story or good judgment,” said Spike firmly, “is good money, and that’s what I want.”

He leaned over the editor’s desk, his hard felt hat on the back of his head, and on his bronzed, lean face an expression of utter weariness.

“You’ve heard of Long Sam, the American crook? If you haven’t, you’ll find something about him in the library. Dig out the cuttings.”

“I’ve heard a lot about good money since I joined this staff,” said Spike patiently, “but I can’t say that I’ve seen much of it. Maybe this money shortage that is splashed this morning is responsible, and——”

“We’ve got the tip from our New York man that he’s here,” said the dense editor at the desk; “and, so far as I can tell, none of our own police knows about it. Go down and meet the Mauretania; you’ll have ample time before the boat leaves to get acquainted with somebody who’ll put you on to him. And if you want to make a little extra money, get a two-column story out of him for our Sunday edition.”

“I’m not so much concerned about the extra money,” said Spike, “as any little sum—hark at me talking about little sums when I really mean a lot!—any big sum that you can recommend Scrooge to hand out. That cashier of ours is a gold hoarder. He winces at every penny you take from him. Give me an order that’ll make him howl, Mr. Branksome. Anyway, I shall have to have some money,” he said in a more serious tone. “I can’t go fooling about on a first-class ocean liner, making enquiries, bribing stewards, dropping diamond necklaces here and there, so to speak, unless I’ve got “

The news editor scribbled a note on a sheet of paper and handed it to him, and Spike read with pain the amount that the cashier was authorized to advance on account of expenses.

“How far can a man go in society on a pound?” he asked bitterly. “It isn’t as though I was going to Ascot or to do a Royal wedding. This is an expensive trip, and a pound goes about as far in Southampton as an ice-cream in the tropics. Make it a fiver,”he wheedled; but the news editor, who had listened, stony-faced, to generations of reporters pleading for expenses, waved him forth.

Spike had the good fortune to catch the special train that was on its way to meet the boat, and he had hardly stepped on to the quay when the huge bow of the Mauretania came slowly round the end of the dock, and, pushed and pulled by a fleet of tugs, drifted majestically to her berth.

As soon as the gangways were connected he made his way to the purser’s cabin, and that gentleman, who had met Spike before, beckoned him urgently into the privacy of his inner office.

“There’s been a robbery on the ship,” he said, “and I don’t want you to make too much of a song about it. A young lady had seven hundred pounds stolen from her the night before last.”

“Who are you carrying?” asked Spike, interested.

“The usual crowd. Jake Feld is the card man, and it wouldn’t be him, because he’s not the sort of bird who’d rob a cabin. There’s another fellow. Do you know a man named Steedman?”

Spike shook his head.

“I’ve got an idea that he’s known on this side; and from a hint I’ve had dropped, I should say that he had something to do with this robbery. I’ve had his cabin searched while he’s been on deck, and I’ll get the Customs to run over him when he lands, but he’s too clever a fellow to have the stuff on him.”

“You haven’t by chance a man called Long Sam—the other names are various?” Spike reeled off a dozen of them.

The purser shook his head.

‘This fellow Steedman’s tall, and I’ve got an idea I heard Jake or somebody say, ‘Good morning, Sam,’ to him. I wonder if that’s the fellow?”

“Let me have a look at him,” said Spike.

“You’ll see him in a minute. He’s coming to collect a bag that he put in here the day we left New York. You keep out of sight, and I’ll give you a signal when he arrives.”

The purser had hardly finished speaking when a harsh, strident voice at the counter of the purser’s office called him by name.

“That’s the fellow,” whispered the purser, and went out.

Spike, looking through the curtain, saw a tall, leathery-faced man, the stump of a cigar stuck in the corner of his mouth, and recognized him instantly. It was his business to follow Long Sam and procure his story. What the story would be he knew in advance. Sam would give reminiscences of past and present crimes, would affirm his own penitence and reformation, would state that he had come to England to see a specialist—Spike could have written it without seeing the man.

Instead, he waited, and when the purser came back:

“That’s the fellow,” he said. “I’d like to bet you that he’ll get away with the money in spite of your Customs. Where’s the young lady?”

“She’s in her stateroom—Number 195, D Deck.”

Spike hurried off in search of the girl. He was afraid that she had already gone ashore, for the passengers had begun to leave. They could not get past the Customs barrier, however, and with the aid of the purser he would be able to pick her up. That officer’s assistance was unnecessary, however, for the girl was coming out of her cabin as Spike came to the alleyway, a slim figure in black, with a face that took Spike’s breath away.

“Miss—“ he began, raising his hat. (He cursed himself for a fool that he had not asked the purser her name.)

“Miss Thorpe.” She smiled at his embarrassment.

“I’m a reporter of the Post-Herald,” he said, “and I’ve heard from the purser that you’ve lost a lot of money on the voyage.”

She hesitated in the doorway.

“I don’t think I want to talk about it,” she said, and then: “Will you please come in?”

Spike followed her into the little cabin and sat down on the sofa at her gesture.

“I lost seven hundred and fifty pounds,” she said. “Very stupidly I kept the money in my dressing-bag, never dreaming that anybody would rob a girl.”

“The motto of the ship thief is the women and children first,” said Spike, and she smiled.

She was very pretty. She was beautiful, thought Spike. And then he suddenly remembered Gussie Thorpe’s reference to a cousin who was coming from America.

“Your name’s Thorpe; are you any relation to Augustus Thorpe of Park Lane?”

She nodded.

“I’m delighted to hear it,” said Spike untruthfully. “Gussie is one of my best friends, or I’m one of his— I‘m not quite sure which.”

His claim did not seem to arouse much enthusiasm in the girl.

“I’m going to stay with his people in the country,” she said rather shortly. “I had a cablegram to-day inviting me. This robbery alters all my plans. It is terrible, it’s tragic!”

She clenched her hands, and he saw from the expression on her face just how tragic the situation was. And with his quick intuition he jumped at the principal cause of her dismay.

“What were you going to do with the money, Miss Thorpe?” he asked; and she did not even resent the impertinence of the question.

“I have a small farm in the country; it belonged to my father, and we let it when we went to America. With the money I was going to start poultry-farming—and be independent.”

The emphasis on those two words told Spike all he wanted to know.

“Are you going to marry Gussie?” he asked, and she coloured red.

“No,” she said quickly, and then: “I don’t know. I ... “

“You hope not. I should imagine you did,” said Spike, fanning himself with his hat. “To marry Gussie is a fate worse than death. His brain’s as empty as the sound-box of a gramophone, and his conversation would drive you to drink.”

“I thought you were a friend of his.”

“I never harboured that illusion,” said Spike shamelessly. “Miss Thorpe, I’m going to get your money back.”

“How?”

“I’m going to get. it back,” said Spike. “Are you going straight away to Gussie’s ghastly relations?”

This time she laughed.

“It’s only just beginning to dawn upon me that you’re rather rapid,” she finished. “I don’t know why I should take you so much into my confidence, though I suppose one does that with the Press instinctively; and I’m sure I ought not to have discussed Augustus with you.”

“He will never know,” said Spike calmly. “Even I shall not tell him.”

He hurried on to the deck and down the gangway to the space inside the Customs barrier. There was no difficulty in picking up Long Sam. He was talking to a short, thick-set man, and, going to a steward, Spike asked him who the other was.

“That’s Mr. Jake Feld,” said the steward.

So that was the card man. Spike edged forward until he came close to where the two men were standing. He only heard one word, and that was the word “Boddington”, and then Jake shook his head, and he heard Long Sam say:

“To-night or to-morrow night, just as you like. I shall be there....”

Spike knew the “Boddington”; it was a fashionable bar in the West End of London, and the only bar that had any resemblance to a French cafe. It was a well-known meeting-place of all the dubious characters of the underworld, and the fact that the police made no attempt to close this notorious haunt was inexplicable to those who did not understand police methods. Spike, who understood the workings of the official mind very well indeed, realized that the “Boddington” was allowed to keep open so that the police should have a house where they could, at almost any hour of the day, find those particular undesirables from whom they wished to secure information about other undesirables who did not put in an appearance.

He saw the girl to a carriage, being careful to place her in a part of the train a long way from where Long Sam had seated himself, and travelled up to London with her; and he found in her the most wonderful woman in the world. In that dazed condition of ecstasy he reached the office.

“Get Sam?” asked the news editor.

“I found him, but the moment is not expedient. There’s been a robbery on board the ship, and they want to keep it dark until they get a little more information about Sam’s worldly possessions.”

Here he was speaking only half the truth, but it was the convincing half, and Mr. Branksome growled and dismissed him.

Gussie was having breakfast when Spike lounged in to him, and Gussie was alarmed. He was a small-headed young man with a tiny moustache, and when he was alarmed he seemed all mouth and eyes.

“Hullo, old thing,” he said suspiciously.

“I want you to help me,” said Spike.

“I haven’t a pound in the house—“ began Gussie; but his companion went on:

“What are you doing to-night?”

“I’m going into the country,” said Gussie, with every evidence of satisfaction, “and I shall be away for a month. My dear little girl has arrived, old boy—and she’s lost all her money, old boy—every bean, old boy——”

“Don’t call me ‘old boy’ again or I’ll brain you. You’re a satyr, Gussie, a hideous male vamp, Gussie.”

Spike scratched his chin. All the way from the office of the Post-Herald he had been considering the problem of Long Sam, whom even the police did not know to be in London. And there was lurking at the back of his busy brain the skeleton of a scheme.

“I’m broke,” he continued. “And take that look off your face. Have I ever borrowed money from you more than twice in a month, you mouldy piece of cheese?”

“Really, old thing, you know I would be quite willing,” murmured Gussie.

For five years he had been trying to shake the companion of his schoolboy days. For five years he had pretended not to see his school-fellow at horse-shows, race-meetings, public funerals and other social entertainments where the Press and the Great meet on equal terms. But no man had ever been able to shake Spike unless he was willing to be shook.

“I thought you would be going out of town,” said Spike thoughtfully. “Are you shutting up your flat? I would like to stay here a couple of nights.”

“Certainly, old thing.”

Gussie was eager in his offer, and was glad that Spike’s request entailed no more onerous service. Spike had made many queer requests of him in his time, mostly for services which Gussie shuddered to recollect.

That night Long Sam, a peculiarly good-looking man of fifty, sat smoking a quiet and thoughtful cigar on the red plush lounge of the “Boddington”, where the underworld have their rendezvous.

He had been away from England for ten years, and no man knew him, not even the occasional detective who strolled in and took a brief but businesslike survey of the company. Therefore did Sam welcome the civility of the smart young man in evening dress who appeared as much of a stranger in this haunt as he was. He was an elegant and blasé young man, and in his eye was a glass which to Long Sam was the trademark of suckerdom.

“One a minute,” murmured Sam.

“A queer place,” said the young gentleman, taking a seat by his side and beckoning a waiter.

“Why, yes, it’s surely a queer-looking place, but pleasant. It is very amusing to watch the people,” said Long Sam politely. “You have been here before, I guess. Personally, I’m a stranger to this wonderful country, but I guess you know this dive pretty well?”

“No,” said Spike untruthfully, “I am a perfect stranger, and it is certainly not a place where I should care to be seen. The fact is, I was expecting to meet a man here—but perhaps I shouldn’t tell you. You are not a member of the police, are you?” he asked suspiciously.

Long Sam kept a straight face and admitted that he was not.

“The fact is,” said Spike confidentially, “I’ve been staying in Park Lane—I rented a flat there. Two or three nights ago somebody burgled the flat,” he said with a careless wave of his hand. “Happily they missed my sister’s pearls, which I keep in a safe in the drawing room, but they got away with a gold statuette which doesn’t belong to me ... in fact, it belongs to the man I hired the flat from. Naturally I am anxious to recover this. I offered a reward, and have had a communication from the thief, who has undertaken to meet me here. Which is breaking the law,” he added soberly, “but you can quite understand one doesn’t want to lose another fellow’s family heirlooms?” He lit a violet-tipped cigarette and exhaled a fragrant cloud.

“Why, sure,” said Long Sam, taking a deep breath. “I can quite understand how you feel about it, mister. The same sort of thing happened to me on Long Island.”

His acquaintance with London was an extensive one, however much a stranger he might be to the “Boddington”.

In point of fact, he also had come to meet a member of his own craft, to discuss future operations.

“So you have been burgled, eh?” he said slowly. “I heard of a burglary the other day. Where was this?”

“Nine-hundred-and-seven Park Lane,” said Spike. “But I don’t think you read it, because it wasn’t in the papers. I am not giving him another chance.” He shook his head. “To-morrow I have arranged to carry all the family jewels to the bank. I may be very indiscreet in telling you all this,” he added frankly, “but I see that you are an American, a country for which I have the greatest affection.”

“Will you have a drink?” asked the genial Sam as the waiter approached at last.

Spike murmured his agreement, and rattled the change from a pound, causing as much noise as four loose shillings can make when vigorously handled.

Long Sam’s friend came, but was too much of a professional to approach. Spike saw him out of the corner of his eye, sitting at a table in solitude and waiting.

“Say, that story of the burglar interests me,” said Long Sam, after the first drink. “How did he get into your house—nine-hundred-and-seven Park Lane, you said?”

Spike nodded gravely.

“Through the pantry window. My servants have a trick of leaving it unlocked,” he said; “and even if they didn’t it is an easy place to force. I am having bars put there to-morrow,” he added. “Whether the owner will be pleased or not, I don’t know...

Early in the morning—at three o’clock, to be precise— Long Sam with the assistance of a fellow professional wrenched open the pantry window of 907 Park Lane and slipped through. The house was in darkness, but his electric lamp showed him the way up the kitchen stairs to the main hall. He knew the exact location of the drawing-room, because Spike, in his artlessness, had practically drawn a plan of the house.

He came into the drawing-room quietly, and then stopped, closing the door behind him and feeling along the wall for the light-switch. He found it at last, turned on the light, and wished he hadn’t, for Spike was sitting at a writing-table, and in his hand was a heavy-calibre naval revolver which looked particularly dangerous to Long Sam.

“I—I just came in to see you, Mr. Brown,” gulped the visitor.

“Fine,” said Spike. “Step over here, and turn out your pockets.”

“Eh?” said Sam, startled.

“Neither hay nor corn,” said Spike. “Get busy, Sam, or there’s going to be trouble for you.”

Sam obeyed reluctantly. He produced a small roll of treasury bills, ten five-pound notes, and a handful of silver, a small and serviceable little revolver, which Spike confiscated, a notebook, a watch and chain and a few odds and ends.

“Take off your clothes article by article, and turn ‘em over, Sam. The police are looking for you—there’s an old charge against you, by the way.”

Sam passed his waistcoat—in the breast pocket were seven one-hundred-pound notes and a fifty.

“Stolen from Miss Thorpe’s cabin—I’ve got the numbers,” said Spike.

He pocketed the money and handed back the remainder of the goods, except the revolver.

“Say, what about the other money?” growled the man.

Spike smiled.

“Sam,” he said, “have you ever heard of manna?”

“You’ll hear of something,” growled the other.

“You’re not allowed to cross-examine counsel,” said Spike. “You’ve heard of manna from heaven—Sam you’re It! You’re going to keep a reporter in luxury for two months—think of it! Now sit down at this table and tell me the story of your life, because I’ve promised the Post-Herald two columns, and I am a man of my word.”

As soon as the post offices were opened in the morning, Spike sent off a wire. It was addressed to Elsie Thorpe, Grove Hall, Wayboro’, and it ran:


GOT YOUR MONEY. DON’T MARRY GUSSIE TILL I MAKE BETTER OFFER. AM VERY KEEN ON POULTRY-FARMING.</story>