GERHARD SCHRÖDER
For other people named Gerhard Schröder, see Gerhard Schröder (disambiguation).

Gerhard Fritz Kurt Schröder ( [ˈɡɛɐ̯haɐ̯t fʁɪts kʊɐ̯t ˈʃʁøːdɐ] ( listen); born 7 April 1944) is a German politician, and served as Chancellor of Germany from 1998 to 2005. As a member of the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD), he led a coalition government of the SPD and the Greens. Before becoming a full-time politician, he was a lawyer, and before becoming Chancellor he served as Prime Minister of Lower Saxony (1990–1998). Following the 2005 federal election, which his party lost, after three weeks of negotiations he stood down as Chancellor in favour of Angela Merkel of the rival Christian Democratic Union. He is currently the chairman of the board of Nord Stream AG, after having been hired as a global manager by investment bank Rothschild, and also the chairman of the board of football club Hannover 96.
EARLY LIFE AND EDUCATION
This section of a biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful. (December 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

Schröder was born in Mossenberg, Lippe (today an outlying centre of Blomberg, North Rhine-Westphalia). His father, Fritz Schröder, a lance corporal in the Wehrmacht, was killed in action in World War II in Romania on 4 October 1944, almost six months after Gerhard's birth. His mother, Erika (née Vosseler), worked as an agricultural laborer so that she could support herself and her two sons. [1]

Schröder completed an apprenticeship in retail sales in a Lemgo hardware shop from 1958 to 1961 and subsequently worked in a Lage retail shop and after that as an unskilled construction worker and a sales clerk in Göttingen while studying at night school for a general qualification for university entrance (Abitur). He did not have to do military service because his father had died in the war. [2] In 1966, Schröder secured entrance to a university, passing the Abitur exam at Westfalen-Kolleg, Bielefeld. From 1966-71 he studied law at the University of Göttingen. From 1972 onwards, Schröder served as a scientific assistant at the university. In 1976, he passed his second law examination, and he subsequently worked as a lawyer until 1990.

Among his more controversial cases, Schröder helped Horst Mahler, a founding member of the Baader-Meinhof terrorist group, to secure both an early release from prison and permission to practice law again in Germany. [3]
EARLY POLITICAL CAREER
Schröder joined the Social Democratic Party in 1963. In 1978 he became the federal chairman of the Young Socialists, the youth organisation of the SPD. He spoke for the dissident Rudolf Bahro, as did President Jimmy Carter, Herbert Marcuse, and Wolf Biermann.
MEMBER OF THE GERMAN BUNDESTAG, 1980–1986
In 1980, Schröder was elected to the German Bundestag (federal parliament), where he wore a sweater instead of the traditional suit. Under the leadership of successive chairmen Herbert Wehner (1980–83) and Hans-Jochen Vogel (1983-86), he served in the SPD parliamentary group. He also became chairman of the SPD Hanover district.

In a frequently-cited and undenied newspaper story, a drunken Schröder is reported to have stood in 1982 outside the forbidding modernist chancellery building in Bonn, clutching the black iron railings and yelling: “I want to get in.” [4] That same year, he wrote an article on the idea of a red/green coalition for a book at Olle & Wolter, Berlin; this appeared later in "Die Zeit". Chancellor Willy Brandt, the SPD and SI chairman, who reviewed Olle & Wolter at that time, had just asked for more books on the subject.

In 1985, Schröder met the GDR leader Erich Honecker during a visit to East Berlin. In 1986, Schröder was elected to the parliament of Lower Saxony and became leader of the SPD group.
MINISTER-PRESIDENT OF LOWER SAXONY, 1990–1998
After the SPD won the state elections in June 1990, Schröder became Minister-President of Lower Saxony as head of an SPD-Greens coalition; in this position, he also won the 1994 and 1998 state elections. He was subsequently also appointed to the supervisory board of Volkswagen, the largest company in Lower Saxony and of which the state of Lower Saxony is a major stockholder.

Following his election as Minister-President in 1990, Schröder also became a member of the board of the federal SPD. In 1997 and 1998, he served as President of the Bundesrat.

During Schröder’s time in office, first in coalition with the environmentalist Green Party, then with a clear majority, Lower Saxony became one of the most deficit-ridden of Germany's 16 federal states and unemployment rose higher than the national average of 12 percent. [5]

In 1996, Schröder caused controversy by taking a free ride on the Volkswagen corporate jet to attend the Vienna Opera Ball, along with Volkswagen CEO Ferdinand Piëch. The following year, he nationalized a big steel mill in Lower Saxony to preserve jobs. [6]

In the 1998 state elections, Schöder’s Social Democrats increased their share of the vote by about four percentage points over the 44.3 percent they recorded in the previous elections in 1994 – a postwar record for the party in Lower Saxony that reversed a string of Social Democrat reversals in state elections elsewhere. [7]
CHANCELLOR OF GERMANY, 1998–2005
This section of a biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful. (December 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

First term, 1998–2002

Following the 1998 national elections, Schröder became Chancellor as head of an SPD-Green coalition. Throughout his campaign for Chancellor, he portrayed himself as a pragmatic new Social Democrat who would promote economic growth while strengthening Germany's generous social welfare system. [8]

After the resignation of Oskar Lafontaine as SPD Chairman in March 1999, in protest at Schröder's adoption of a number of what Lafontaine considered "neo-liberal" policies, Schröder took over his rival's office as well. In a move meant to signal a deepening alliance between Schröder and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, [9] the two leaders issued an 18-page manifesto for economic reform in June 1999. Titled Europe: The Third Way, [10] or Die Neue Mitte in German, it called on Europe's center-left governments to cut taxes, pursue labor and welfare reforms and encourage entrepreneurship. The joint paper said European governments needed to adopt a "supply-side agenda" to respond to globalization, the demands of capital markets and technological change. [11]

Schröder’s efforts backfired within his own Social Democratic Party though, where the traditional labor wing rejected the Schröder-Blair call for cost-cutting in the welfare state and pro-business policies. Instead, the paper took part of the blame for a succession of six German state election losses in 1999 for Schröder's party. Only by 2000, Schröder managed to capitalize on the donations scandal of his Christian Democratic opposition to push through a landmark tax-reform bill and re-establish his dominance of the German political scene. [12]

In May 2001, Schröder moved to his new official residence, the Chancellery building in Berlin, almost two years after the city became the seat of the German Government. He had previously been working out of the building in eastern Berlin used by the leaders of East Germany. [13]

Second term, 2002–2005

Throughout the build-up to the 2002 elections Schröder’s Social Democrats and the Green Party trailed the center-right candidate Edmund Stoiber until the catastrophe caused by rising floodwater in Germany gave him a chance to monopolize the media and revive his poll ratings. [14] Lastly, his popular opposition to a war in Iraq dominated campaigning in the run-up to the polls. [15] At the 22 September vote, he secured another four-year term, with a narrow nine-seat majority (down from 21).

In February 2004, Schröder resigned as chairman of the SPD amid growing criticism from across his own party of his reform agenda; [16] [17] Franz Müntefering succeeded him as chairman. On 22 May 2005, after the SPD lost to the Christian Democrats (CDU) in North Rhine-Westphalia, Gerhard Schröder announced he would call federal elections "as soon as possible". A motion of confidence was subsequently defeated in the Bundestag on 1 July 2005 by 151 to 296 (with 148 abstaining), after Schröder urged members not to vote for his government in order to trigger new elections. In response, a grouping of leftwing SPD dissidents and the neo-communist Party of Democratic Socialism agreed to run on a joint ticket in the general election, with Schröder’s rival Oskar Lafontaine leading the new group. [18]

The 2005 German federal elections were held on 18 September. After the elections, neither Schröder's SPD-Green coalition nor the alliance between CDU/CSU and the FDP led by Angela Merkel achieved a majority in parliament, but the CDU/CSU had a stronger popular electoral lead by one percentage point. Since the SPD had been trailing the CDU by more than 15 points only weeks before the election, this outcome was a surprise and was mainly attributed to Schröder's charisma and prowess as a campaigner; polls consistently showed that he was much more popular with the German people than Merkel. On election night, both Schröder and Merkel claimed victory and chancellorship, but after initially ruling out a grand coalition with Merkel, Schröder and Müntefering entered negotiations with her and the CSU's Edmund Stoiber. On 10 October, it was announced that the parties had agreed to form a grand coalition. Schröder agreed to cede the chancellorship to Merkel, but the SPD would hold the majority of government posts and retain considerable control of government policy. [19] Merkel was elected chancellor on 22 November.

On 11 October 2005, Schröder announced that he would not take a post in the new Cabinet and, in November, he confirmed that he would leave politics as soon as Merkel took office. On 23 November 2005, he resigned his Bundestag seat.

On 14 November 2005, at a SPD conference in Karlsruhe, Schröder urged members of the SPD to support the proposed coalition, saying it "carries unmistakably, perhaps primarily, the imprint of the Social Democrats". Many SPD members had previously indicated that they supported the coalition, which would have continued the policies of Schröder's government, but had objected to Angela Merkel replacing him as Chancellor. The conference voted overwhelmingly to approve the deal. [20]
DOMESTIC POLICIES
In its first term, Schröder's government decided to phase out nuclear power, fund renewable energies, institute civil unions which enabled same-sex partners to enter into a civil union, and liberalize naturalization law.

During Schröder’s time in office, economic growth slowed to only 0.2 percent in 2002 and gross domestic product shrank in 2003, while German unemployment was running at over ten percent. [21] Most voters soon associated Schröder with the Agenda 2010 reform program, which included cuts in the social welfare system (national health insurance, unemployment payments, pensions), lowered taxes, and reformed regulations on employment and payment. He also eliminated capital gains tax on the sale of corporate stocks and thereby made the country more attractive to foreign investors. [22]

After the 2002 election, the SPD steadily lost support in opinion polls. Many increasingly perceived Schröder's Third Way program to be a dismantling of the German welfare state. Moreover, Germany's high unemployment rate remained a serious problem for the government. Schröder's tax policies were also unpopular; when the satirical radio show The Gerd Show released "Der Steuersong", featuring Schröder's voice (by impressionist Elmar Brandt) lampooning Germany's indirect taxation with the lyrics "Dog tax, tobacco tax, emissions and environmental tax, did you really think more weren't coming?", it became Germany's 2002 Christmas No. 1 chart hit and sold over a million copies. The fact that Schröder served on the Volkswagen board (a position that came with his position as minister-president of Lower Saxony) and tended to prefer pro-car policies led to him being nicknamed the "Auto-Kanzler" (car chancellor).
EUROPEAN INTEGRATION
After taking office, Schröder made his first trip abroad to France for meetings with President Jacques Chirac and Prime Minister Lionel Jospin in October 1998. [23] A 2001 meeting held by both leaders in Blaesheim later gave the name to a regular series of informal meetings between the French President, the German Chancellor, and their foreign ministers. The meetings were held alternately in France and Germany. At the 40th anniversary of the Elysée Treaty, both sides agreed that rather than twice-yearly summits, there would now be regular meetings of a council of French and German ministers overseen by their respective foreign affairs ministers. [24] In an unprecedented move, Chirac formally agreed to represent Schröder in his absence at a European Council meeting in October 2003. [25]

In his first months in office, Schröder vigorously demanded that Germany's net annual contribution of about $12 billion to the budget of the European Union be cut, saying his country was paying most for European "waste." [26] He later moderated his views when his government held the rotating Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 1999.

In 2003, Schröder and Chirac agreed to share power in the institutions of the European Union between a President of the European Commission, elected by the European Parliament, and a full-time President of the European Council, chosen by heads of state and government; their agreement later formed the basis of discussions at the Convention on the Future of Europe and became law with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon. [27] Ahead of the French referendum on a European Constitution, Schröder joined Chirac in urging French voters to back the new treaty, which would have enshrined new rules for the expanded EU of 25 member states and widened the areas of collective action. [28]

Also in 2003, both Schröder and Chirac forced a suspension of sanctions both faced for breaching the European Union’s fiscal rules that underpin the euro – the Stability and Growth Pact – for three years in a row. Schröder later called for a revision of the Lisbon Strategy and thereby a retreat from Europe's goal of overtaking the US as the world's most competitive economy by 2010. Instead, he urged the EU to reform the Pact to encourage growth, and to seek the reorientation of the €100 billionn annual EU budget towards research and innovation. [29] By 2005, he had successfully pushed for an agreement on sweeping plans to rewrite the Pact, which now allowed EU members with deficits above the original 3 per cent of GDP limit to cite the costs of “the reunification of Europe” as a mitigating factor. [30]

Schröder was regarded a strong ally of Prime Minister Leszek Miller of Poland [31] and supporter of the 2004 enlargement of the European Union. [32] On 1 August 2004, the 60th anniversary of the 1944 Warsaw Uprising, he apologized to Poland for "the immeasurable suffering" of its people during the conflict; he was the first German chancellor to be invited to an anniversary of the uprising. Both Schröder and Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer alos supported the accession of Turkey to the European Union.
FOREIGN POLICY
This section of a biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful. (December 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

Marking a clear break with the caution of German foreign policy since World War II, Schröder laid out in 1999 his vision of the country's international role, describing Germany as "a great power in Europe" that would not hesitate to pursue its national interests. [33]

Schröder also began seeking a resolution ways to compensate Nazi-era slave laborers almost as soon as he was elected chancellor. Reversing the hard-line stance of his predecessor, Helmut Kohl, he agreed to the government contributing alongside industry to a fund that would compensate people forced to work in German factories by the Hitler regime and appointed Otto Graf Lambsdorff to represent German industry in the negotiations with survivors' organizations, American lawyers and the United States government. [34]

Schröder sent forces to Kosovo and to Afghanistan as part of NATO operations. Until Schröder's chancellorship, German troops had not taken part in combat actions since World War II. With Germany having a long experience with terrorism itself, Schröder declared solidarity with the United States after the September 11 terrorist attacks. When Schröder left office, Germany had 2,000 troops in Afghanistan, the largest contingent from any nation other than the United States, Britain, France, Canada and after 2 years Afghanistan.

Relations with the Middle East

During their time in government, both Schröder and his foreign minister Joschka Fischer were widely considered sincerely, if not uncritically, pro-Israeli. [35] Schröder represented the German government at the funeral service for King Hussein of Jordan in Amman on February 9, 1999. [36]

When British planes joined United States forces bombing Iraq without consulting the United Nations Security Council in December 1998, Schröder endorsed the military action unequivocally. [37] Along with French President Jacques Chirac and many other world leaders, Schröder later spoke out strongly against the 2003 invasion of Iraq and refused any military assistance in that enterprise. Schröder's stance caused political friction between the US and Germany, in particular because he used this topic for his 2002 election campaign. Schröder's stance set the stage for alleged anti-American statements by members of the SPD. The parliamentary leader of the SPD, Ludwig Stiegler, compared US President George W. Bush to Julius Caesar while Schröder's Minister of Justice, Herta Däubler-Gmelin, likened Bush's foreign policy to that of Adolf Hitler. Schröder's critics accused him of enhancing, and campaigning on, anti-American sentiments in Germany. Since his 2002 re-election, Schröder and Bush rarely met and their animosity was seen as a widening political gap between the US and Europe. Bush stated in his memoirs that Schröder initially promised to support the Iraq war but changed his mind with the upcoming German elections and public opinion strongly against the invasion, to which Schröder responded saying that Bush was "not telling the truth". [38] When asked in March 2003 if he were at all self-critical about his position on Iraq, Schröder replied, "I very much regret there were excessive statements" from himself and former members of his government. [39]

Relations with Russia

On his first official trip to Russia in late 1998, Schröder suggested that Germany was not likely to come up with more aid for the country. He also sought to detach himself from the close personal relationship that his predecessor, Helmut Kohl, had with Boris Yeltsin, saying that German-Russian relations should "develop independently of concrete political figures." [40] Soon after, however, he cultivated close ties with Yeltsin's successor, President Vladimir Putin, in an attempt to strengthen the "strategic partnership" between Berlin and Moscow, [41] including the opening of a gas pipeline from Russian Dan Marino-Pipelines over the Baltic Sea exclusively between Russia and Germany (see "Gazprom controversy" below). During his time in office, he visited the country five times.

Schröder was criticized in the media, and subsequently by Angela Merkel, for calling Putin a "flawless democrat" on 22 November 2004, only days before Putin prematurely congratulated Viktor Yanukovich during the Orange Revolution. [42] Only a few days after his chancellorship, Schröder joined the board of directors of the joint venture. Thus bringing about new speculations about his prior objectivity. In his memoirs Decisions: My Life in Politics, Schröder still defends his friend and political ally, and states that "it would be wrong to place excessive demands on Russia when it comes to the rate of domestic political reform and democratic development, or to judge it solely on the basis of the Chechnya conflict." [43]

Relations with China

During his time in office, Schröder visited China six times. [44] He was the first Western politician to travel to Beijing and apologize after NATO jets had mistakenly bombed the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade in 1999. [45] [46] In 2004, he and Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao established a secure, direct telephone line. [47] He also pressed for the lifting of the EU arms embargo on China. [48]
LIFE AFTER POLITICS
Schröder's plans after leaving office as Chancellor and resigning his Bundestag seat included resuming his law practice in Berlin and writing a book. He was subsequently retained by the Swiss publisher Ringier AG as a consultant. [49] He rents an apartment in Berlin while retaining his primary residence in Hanover. As a former Chancellor, he is entitled to a permanent office, also situated in Berlin. He spent time improving his English language skills. [50]

After leaving public office, Schröder represented Germany at the funeral services for Boris Yeltsin in Moscow (jointly with Horst Köhler and Helmut Kohl, 2007) and Fidel Castro in Santiago de Cuba (2016). [51] In 2016, Schröder was appointed by Federal Minister for Economic Affairs Sigmar Gabriel to mediate in a dispute between two of Germany’s leading retailers, Edeka and REWE Group, over the takeover of supermarket chain Kaiser's Tengelmann.

In addition, Schröder has held several other paid and unpaid positions since his retirement from German politics, including:

* Herrenknecht, Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board (since 2017) [52]
* CargoBeamer, Member of the Advisory Board
* N M Rothschild & Sons, Member of the European Advisory Council (since 2006) [53]
* Berggruen Institute, Member of the Council for the Future of Europe and the 21st Century Council. [54]
* Bundesliga Foundation, Member of the Board of Trustees
* German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Member of the Advisory Council [55]
* Dresden Frauenkirche, Member of the Board of Trustees [56]
* Mädchenchor Hannover Foundation, Member of the Board of Trustees [57]
* German Near and Middle East Association (NUMOV), Honorary Chairman of the Board [58]
* Wilhelm Busch Museum, Chairman of the Board of Trustees (since 2013)
* InterAction Council of Former Heads of State and Government, Member [59]
CRITICISM AND CONTROVERSIES

GAZPROM
As Chancellor, Gerhard Schröder was a strong advocate of the Nord Stream pipeline project, which aims to supply Russian gas directly to Germany, thereby bypassing transit countries. The agreement to build the pipeline was signed two weeks before the German parliamentary election. On 24 October 2005, just a few weeks before Schröder stepped down as Chancellor, the German government guaranteed to cover 1 billion euros of the Nord Stream project cost, should Gazprom default on a loan. However, this guarantee had never been used. [60] Soon after stepping down as chancellor, Schröder accepted Gazprom's nomination for the post of the head of the shareholders' committee of Nord Stream AG, raising questions about a potential conflict of interest. German opposition parties expressed concern over the issue, as did the governments of countries over whose territory gas is currently pumped. [61] In an editorial entitled Gerhard Schroeder's Sellout, the American newspaper The Washington Post also expressed sharp criticism, reflecting widening international ramifications of Schröder's new post. [62] Democrat Tom Lantos, chairman of the United States House Committee on Foreign Affairs, likened Schröder to a "political prostitute" for his recent behaviour. [63] In January 2009, the Wall Street Journal reported that Schröder would join the board of the oil company TNK-BP, a joint venture between oil major BP and Russian partners. [64]
DEFAMATION LAWSUIT
In April 2002, Schröder sued the DDP press agency for publishing an opinion of public relations consultant Sabine Schwind saying that he "would be more credible if he didn't dye his gray hair". The court decided to ban the media from suggesting that he colours his hair. [65] The Chancellor's spokesman said: "This is not a frivolous action taken over whether he does or doesn't dye his hair, but is a serious issue regarding his word." The agency's lawyer said that they could not accept a verdict which "does not coincide with freedom of the press."
DISPUTE OVER ESTONIAN WAR MEMORIAL
During a heated dispute between Russia and Estonia in May 2007 over the removal of a Soviet-era war memorial from the centre of the Estonian capital Tallinn to a military cemetery, Schröder defended the Kremlin's reaction. He remarked that Estonia had contradicted "every form of civilised behaviour". [66] Consequently, the Estonian government cancelled a planned visit by Schröder in his function as chairman of Nord Stream AG, which promotes the petroleum pipeline from Russia to Germany.
COMMENTS ON KOSOVO INDEPENDENCE
Schröder has criticised some European countries' swift decision to recognise Kosovo as an independent state after it declared independence in February 2008. He believes the decision was taken under heavy pressure from the US government and has caused more problems, including the weakening of the so-called pro-EU forces in Serbia. [67] In August 2008, Schröder laid the blame for the 2008 South Ossetia war squarely on Mikhail Saakashvili and "the West", hinting at American foreknowledge and refusing to criticize any aspect of Russian policy which had thus far come to light. [68]
COMMENTS ON CRIMEAN CRISIS
In March 2014, Schröder likened Russia's intervention in Crimea with NATO's intervention in Kosovo, citing both cases as violations of international law and the UN Charter. [69] [70] He further stated that there had been "unhappy developments" on the outskirts of the former Soviet Union since the end of the Cold War, leading Putin to develop justifiable "fears about being encircled". [71] On 13 March 2014, an attempt by the German Green Party to ban Schröder from speaking in public about Ukraine was narrowly defeated in the European parliament. [72] His decision to celebrate his 70th birthday party with Putin in Saint Petersburg's Yusupov Palace in late April elicited further criticism from several members of Merkel's Social Democrat coalition, including human rights spokesperson Christoph Strässer. [73]
PERSONAL LIFE
Schröder has been married four times:

* Eva Schubach (married 1968, divorced 1972);
* Anne Taschenmacher (married 1972, divorced 1984);
* Hiltrud Hampel ("Hillu"; married 1984, divorced 1997);
* Doris Köpf (married 1997, divorced 2016 [74]).

Schröder's four marriages have earned him the nickname "Audi Man", a reference to the four-ring symbol of Audi motorcars. [75] Another nickname is "The Lord of the Rings". [76] [77]

Doris Köpf has a daughter from a previous relationship with a television journalist. She lives with the couple. In July 2004, Schröder and Köpf adopted a child from St. Petersburg. In 2006, they adopted another child from St. Petersburg. [78] When not in Berlin, Schröder lives in Hanover. In 2013, the family purchased another home in Gümüşlük (Turkey), in a real estate project developed by Nicolas Berggruen. [79] [80]

Schröder identifies himself as a member of the Evangelical Church in Germany, but does not appear to be religious. He did not add the optional phrase So wahr mir Gott helfe ("so help me God") when sworn in as chancellor for his first term in 1998. [81]

Schröder is known to be an avid art collector. He chose his friend Jörg Immendorff to paint his official portrait for the German Chancellery. The portrait, which was completed by Immendorff's assistants, was revealed to the public in January 2007; the massive work has ironic character, showing the former Chancellor in stern heroic pose, in the colors of the German flag, painted in the style of an icon, surrounded by little monkeys. [82] These "painter monkeys" were a recurring theme in Immendorff's work, serving as an ironic commentary on the artist's practice. On 14 June 2007, Schröder gave a eulogy at a memorial service for Immendorf at the Alte Nationalgalerie in Berlin. [83]
AWARDS AND HONOURS
* Order of the White Eagle (Poland, 2002)
* Schröder has been awarded honorary doctorates by
* Tongji University in Shanghai (30 December 2002),
* St. Petersburg University (June 2003),
* Marmara University in Istanbul (4 April 2005) and
* University of Göttingen (14 June 2005).
* University of Damascus in Damascus, Syria.

* Honorary citizen of Hanover (24 February 2006)
* Knight Grand Cross of the Grand Order of Queen Jelena 24 April 2007, "for exceptional merit in the recognition of Croatia and the support of Croatia on the road to the EU".
* Quadriga Prize (2007)
* Elected a corresponding member of the Department of Social Sciences of the Russian Academy of Sciences (28 May 2008)
* Grand Cross of the Order of the Star of Romania
SEE ALSO
* Politics of Germany
BIBLIOGRAPHY
* Béla Anda, Rolf Kleine: Gerhard Schröder. Eine Biographie. Ullstein, Berlin 1996, ISBN 3-550-07092-6 (updated 2nd edition Ullstein, 2002, ISBN 3-548-36387-3).
* de:Jürgen Hogrefe: Gerhard Schröder: Ein Porträt. Siedler Verlag, Berlin 2002, ISBN 3-88680-757-6.
* de:Reinhard Urschel: Gerhard Schröder. DVA, 2002, ISBN 3-421-05508-4.
* Gerhard Schröder and Ulrich Wickert: Deutschland wird selbstbewusster. Hohenheim-Verlag, 2000, ISBN 3-89850-010-1.
* de:Gregor Schöllgen: Gerhard Schröder. Die Biographie. Deutsche Verlags-Anstalt, 2015, ISBN 978-3421046536.
